From: Deepak Chopra 
Sent: 2/3/2017 10:00:49 AM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
CC: Barnaby Marsh 
Subject: Re: Fwd: 
Attachments: image001.png 
Importance: High 
He is wrong about heart rate variability 
Increased heat rate variability is a sign of Well Being even self awareness not decreased variability. It's a sign 
of adaptability and flexibility. 
Rigidity stubbornness and inability to change are associated with decreased heat rate variability and sympathetic 
overdrive 
Trump would be an example of that 
Love IP 
Deepak Chopra MD 
2013 Costa Del Mar Road  
Carlsbad, CA 92009  
Chopra Foundation 
Jiyo 
Chopra Center for Wellbeing 
lar 
• 
On Feb 2, 2017, at 8:24 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
----------Forwarded message 
From: Robert Trivers 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032451 
Date: Thu, Feb 2, 2017 at 6:45 PM 
Subject: 
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Dear Jeffrey 
Two questions. 
1—do you believe the stock market will continue to climb given what we have now seen of Trump-land? 
[Strictly confidential] 
2—what do you think of the attached (N=1)? You do not drink or smoke, probably do not inject etc. you swim 
or exercise every day, so your heartbeat is expected to be low and less variable than average. Is your ability to 
predict heart rate accurately—without holding your neck or wrist—positively related to your ability to succeed 
in the financial world—as the attached strongly suggests. Just give me and N=1. 
Remember you asked me, what does self-knowledge have to do with anything—and here is a most intriguing 
example. 
I will send you a joke shortly 
All best 
bob 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
<Interocept stock trading.pdf> 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032452 
