From: Darren lndyke 
Sent: 2/15/2017 11:11:40 AM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fwd: TR: update 
Importance: High 
Privileged - Redacted 
Sent from my iPhone 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Etienne Binant < 
Date: February 14, 2017 at 8:18:41 PM EST 
To: Darren Indyke _________________ 
Subject: TR: update 
Dear Darren 
Latest from JE (indeed, encouraging) 
Please let me know when account/wire are active, and how I can access internet banking and start the ball (in 
fact, it has started) 
all the best 
De : jeffrey E. <jeeyacation@gmail.com> 
Envoye : vendredi 10 feyrier 2017 18:40 
A: Etienne Binant; Lang, Caroline 
Objet: Re: update 
yes, lets start. . yes we are on. sorry with trump around its been very crazy busy 
On Fri, Feb 10, 2017 at 7:59 AM, Etienne Binant wrote: 
Hi Jeffrey 
Happy to talk to you almost anytime today until around 3PM. Just tell me what number I should reach. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032464 
Not sure what got lost in translation here: never had the intention to go to any art fair or art show or 
anything of the kind. 
All the artists we have in mind or send to you are people we have direct connections with. Not just their 
studio, but also their home. They are people the work of whom we follow, and many of them are already 
friendly (Arianna, Cali have had dinner or stayed home). 
The idea is absolutely to have an impact on the ecosystem and to make a difference by supporting great 
artists when they need it. 
Galleries references are important, because galleries allow artist to reach a broader audience. We would go 
directly to the source. 
This is why it's important for me to go to LA or Berlin (or elsewhere) because those artists are not rich yet, 
they dont travel so much. They belong to a scene, and it does make a big difference to them if you connect in 
person. 
The spirit is to have an impact on young, talented folks, and absolutely to stay at the source. 
Once again, not sure was drifted away from this in communication 
E 
De : jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Envoye : vendredi 10 fevrier 2017 12:32 
A: Etienne Binant 
Cc: Darren Indyke 
Objet: Re: update 
going to artists studio s much more appropriate , i think 
On Thu, Feb 9, 2017 at 9:49 PM, Etienne Binant < wrote: 
Gentlemen 
I hope you are having a great week. 
In LA hoping to begin acquiring pieces: are we on? 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032465 
If not yet, when please 
thanks 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032466 
