From: Linda Pinto 
Sent: 11/25/2016 11:53:06 AM 
To: 'jeffrey E.' [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: RE: ILE MOUSTIQUE 
Importance: High 
OK great I will ask the accounting department to prepare and send the first request. 
Good luck with the government... 
Linda PINTO 
Cabinet Alberto Pinto 
11 rue d'Aboukir 
75002 Paris 
T: 
F: 
www.albertopinto.com 
De : jeffrey E. [mailto:jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Envoye : jeudi 24 novembre 2016 18:09 
A: Linda PINTO 
Objet: Re: ILE MOUSTIQUE 
please do so. I am having a meeting with the government on the 15th re foreigb workers , painters. etc. sorry 
, its beeen crazy with trump people here in palm beach 
On Thu, Nov 24, 2016 at 11:49 AM, Linda Pinto wrote: 
Dear Jeffrey, 
Since your last meeting in Paris and the meeting on site I have had no news from you. I would 
just like to know if you intend to go ahead with the interior design work because Florence is 
blocked and waiting. If you want to do it and since about —70-80-90% of the project is 
approved then why don't we start with what is sure and for the remaining points, such as the 
kitchen, we can see about these the next time you are in Paris. 
As for the kitchen I understand new samples were sent yesterday. These samples are in grey 
which is not a very bright color for a beach house kitchen where perhaps blue might be more 
appropriate. Let's see. 
If you would like us to do the project we will send you a budget recap for the points agreed 
upon along with our first account and fees. 
Big kisses, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032376 
Linda PINTO 
Cabinet Alberto Pinto 
11 rue d'Aboukir 
75002 Paris 
T: 
F: 
www.albertopinto.com 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032377 
