From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 9/17/2018 7:12:25 PM 
To: Thomas Jr., Landon 
Subject: Re: Smart analysis on big tech -- Apple section highlighted 
its the leader for the next years . 
On Mon, Sep 17, 2018 at 2:35 PM, Thomas Jr., Landon < 
> wrote: 
China's big tech stocks have fallen into a bear 
market at the same time that regulatory threats 
against U.S. big tech companies are gaining 
momentum. Can U.S. big tech stocks soldier on 
alone or is this a harbinger that the group as a whole 
is losing its tremendous leadership position? 
Sep 13, 2018 
Technology & Security 
• Tech Backlash 
• Save Article 
• Download PDF 
• 
• big-tech-backlash 
In recent months, China's BAT collapse has demonstrated how costly the expectation of 
invincibility can be—Baidu, Alibaba, and Tencent are all down more than 24% 
from their year-to-date closing highs. Citigroup's head of Asia strategy, Mohammed 
Apabhai, told CNN an apt analogy about the investor sentiment that led to BAT's collapse, 
likening "the exuberance for tech stocks to the Looney Tunes cartoons in which Wile E. 
Coyote chases Road Runner over a cliff." Given they've more or less moved in 
tandem for years, will FAANG follow the same path as BAT? 
' EtSFILir., 
Source: Stockcharts.com 
The BAT collapse was triggered by subpar earnings and a shifting regulatory environment 
in China. Facebook's miss in 2Q18—which drove a $120 billion single-day market cap 
loss, the biggest ever for a U.S. company—showed how decisive a turn could be if more 
U.S. tech darlings stumble this quarter. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033115 
There are mounting fundamental reasons to question the 3Q18 earnings 
prospects of FAANG, from the accelerating user backlash against Facebook to Apple's 
trade war exposure to Amazon's rapidly-intensifying workforce revolt that could see the e-
commerce giant left with no option but to raise wages and improve workplace conditions 
for its warehouse and Whole Foods employees. 
However, as Apabhai suggests, the message BAT is sending is less about earnings, and 
more about the cost of exuberance. And FAANG exuberance faces threats that go beyond 
fundamentals. A flurry of regulatory announcements last week signaled the 
political tide has turned in the U.S. Across every branch of government, the 
message was consistent: the U.S. no longer trusts tech giants to self-
police. And the public agrees—according to a Gallup poll last month, 79% of 
Americans now believe "tech companies should be regulated the same way 
the news media is." 
Regardless of political will, threats may not turn to action in the near term. Nonetheless, 
FAANG appears increasingly vulnerable to a decisive sentiment shift. At some point, the 
relentless barrage of bad news will force investors to begin pricing in regulatory 
risks. Any sustained stumble by FAANG's leadership could cripple exuberance, and cause 
an unraveling of passive and algorithmic strategies that are heavily overweight tech 
(see W/LTWApril 7, 2018 for more). We will continue to watch closely to 
estimate timing, but given SAT's collapse, today more than ever, acute 
scrutiny of tech giant leadership is required. 
Through August 28, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft had accounted for greater than 35% of 
the S&P 500's total return this year, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices data. It took 
Amazon just 165 trading days to grow its market value from $600 billion in January to $1 
trillion. The combined market cap of FAAMG (Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, and 
Google) now sits over $4 trillion, or roughly equal to the combined market cap of the 283 
smallest S&P 500 members. 
Tech's continued market leadership means investors have largely discounted 
the mounting risks tech giants face. We have been warning about the downsides of 
tech giant monopolism for more than two years in these pages, from surveillance/data 
security concerns to anticompetitive behavior and their role in escalating inequality. For 
the political establishment, for the media, for the public, this year has seen a 
broad awakening—the Cambridge Analytica scandal, the backlash against Jeff Bezos' 
astonishing wealth, and tech's ever-skyrocketing market caps were all warning 
signs. The past month signals a new phase has begun: from a distant 
rumbling of change to preparation for action. 
The number of significant tech-related regulatory developments that have emerged from 
the U.S. and the E.U. in recent weeks is nothing short of staggering. Here is an 
abbreviated list: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033116 
• President Trump attacked Google for liberal bias, and claimed Google, Facebook, 
and Amazon represent "a very antitrust situation". 
• Attorney General Jeff Sessions convened a meeting of Republican state 
attorneys general to discuss whether tech giants "may be hurting competition and 
intentionally stifling the free exchange of ideas on their platforms." 
• Facebook, Twitter, and Google were called to testify in front of the House and Senate 
about election interference, political bias, etc. Google declined to attend. 
• The FTC has begun a series of hearings on Digital Age antitrust, the first such 
hearings since the 1990s. 
• The FTC revealed the hiring of Lina Kahn—heralded for authoring a groundbreaking 
antitrust argument against Amazon—as an advisor. (See section 5 for more.) 
• Republican Senator Orrin Hatch asked the FTC to reopen a 2013 
antitrust case against Google. 
• Democratic Senator Mark Warner released a six-point policy proposal on regulating 
the tech industry. 
• Democratic Senator Bernie Sanders proposed the "BEZOS Act", which would tax 
corporations one dollar for every dollar low-wage workers receive in government health-
care benefits or food stamps. 
• The E.U. Parliament voted 438 to 226 to back a draft proposal of 
copyright reformsthat will impose unprecedented liability on information platforms. 
• France is pushing to have "Right to be Forgotten" laws applied globally, 
which Google is now fighting in court. 
• Reports emerged that the E.U. is considering investigating Google's location-
tracking practices on data privacy grounds. 
We will continue to watch each development in the U.S. and E.U. closely to understand if 
and when debate turns to action. For now, we agree with the analysis of NYU Stern 
professor Scott Galloway, who told CNBC last week after the congressional hearings: 
I don't see anything meaningful coming out of this panel, much less Washington...D.C. 
lacks the domain expertise or the will to go after big tech. Where you may 
see it is, one, out of Brussels and, two, out of [the FTC, the DOJ, or] a red 
state whose attorney general sees the brightest path between the AG's mansion and the 
governor's mansion is a populist argument against big tech. 
Evidence of fundamental weakness could exacerbate the investor reaction to escalating 
regulatory news. By all accounts, Facebook has continued to bleed 
users. According to Pew Research poll results released earlier this month, more than a 
quarter of U.S. Facebook users claim to have deleted the app from their phones over the 
past year: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033117 
Source: Recode 
Then there's Apple. The trade war combined with China's slowing economy present a 
significant short-term threat to the company's profits. As we note in section 
1, smartphone handset sales in China in August were reported at 32.6 million 
units, a decline of 20.9% year-over-year and 11.8% month-on-
month. Moreover, no firm could suffer more if China decides to target tech 
supply chains in retaliation to Trump's tariffs. 
Yet, the risks extend beyond Asia. On Wednesday, Apple announced its newest 
generation of iPhones. It is following the same strategy as last year, releasing ever-more 
expensive phones as it tries to keep profit growth on pace despite a largely-matured 
smartphone market. As The Wall Street Journal reported this week, projections suggest 
last year's $1,000 iPhone X underperformed previous launches: "Even for Apple and 
its devoted fans, the art of the upsell appears to have some limits...Analysts 
believe the iPhone X has accounted for about 30% of iPhone unit sales in the recent nine-
month period...That is below the share the company's newest models typically get in a 
given cycle." Will a $1,200 iPhone cross the limits of what the market will tolerate? 
We have roughly a month until 3Q18 earnings season begins. For years, big tech's 
remarkable profit trajectory has generated an air of invincibility. BAT's earnings miss 
combined with Facebook's earnings miss has cracked that expectation. As news 
reports of regulatory threats continue to flood in and as tech giant profit 
doubts mount, the weeks to come could see that crack turn to a fissure. 
Then there's Apple. The trade war combined with China's slowing economy 
present a significant short-term threat to the company's profits. As we note 
in section 1, smartphone handset sales in China in August were reported at 
32.6 million units, a decline of 20.9% year-over-year and 11.8% month-on-
month. Moreover, no firm could suffer more if China decides to target tech 
supply chains in retaliation to Trump's tariffs. 
Yet, the risks extend beyond Asia. On Wednesday, Apple announced its 
newest generation of iPhones. It is following the same strategy as last year, 
releasing ever-more expensive phones as it tries to keep profit growth on 
pace despite a largely-matured smartphone market. As The Wall Street 
Journal reported this week, projections suggest last year's $1,000 iPhone X 
underperformed previous launches: "Even for Apple and its devoted fans, 
the art of the upsell appears to have some limits...Analysts believe the iPhone 
X has accounted for about 30% of iPhone unit sales in the recent nine-month 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033118 
period...That is below the share the company's newest models typically get in 
a given cycle." Will a $1,200 iPhone cross the limits of what the market will 
tolerate? 
Landon Thomas, Jr. 
Financial Reporter 
New York Times 
http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/t/landon jr thomas/index.  
html  
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033119 
