From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 5/22/2017 9:52:07 AM 
To: Alireza Ittihadieh 
Subject: Re: Iran and Trump Speech. 
i told you this would happen. its going to get a lot worse before it gets better. 
On Mon, May 22, 2017 at 2:58 AM, Alireza Ittihadieh < 
> wrote: 
Mr. Rouhani's supporters also expect his victory, with 57 percent of the vote, to bolster his 
outreach efforts to the West and the pursuit of more foreign investment to lift Iran's ailing 
economy. 
For those who voted for Mr. Rouhani, there was a feeling of tremendous relief that his 
challenger, the hard-line cleric Ebrahim Raisi, who criticized the nuclear deal with the United 
States and other Western powers, had lost. 
"Bye-bye, Raisi," the crowds chanted during the street gatherings. 
"He faces a difficult task," Fazel Meybodi, a Shiite Muslim cleric from the city of Qum, said of Mr. 
Rouhani. "Now he must provide more freedoms, break the hard-line monopoly on the state-run 
radio and television, and increase freedom of press." 
To achieve all that, Mr. Rouhani must persuade the hard-line-dominated judiciary and security 
forces to change their outlook, Mr. Meybodi said. "If he fails to deliver on at least 70 percent of 
those promises, his future is dark," he added. 
For decades, Saudi Arabia and Iran have competed for religious leadership and political 
influence across the Muslim world and beyond. 
Trump is correct, however, Rouhani needs a chance to act. 
V-BR 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033001 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033002 
