From: Tonja Haddad Coleman 
Sent: 1/29/2015 8:33:35 PM 
To: Darren Indyke jeeyacation@gmail.com; Jack Goldberger 
Subject: FW: National Enquirer Comment Request Re: Jeffrey Epstein 
Importance: High 
Tonja Haddad Coleman, Esq. 
TONJA HADDAD, P.A. 
Advocate Building 
315 SE 7th Street 
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33301 
This e-mail contains PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL information intended only for use of the addressee(s) named above. If you are not the intended recipient of this 
e-mail, or an authorized employee or agent responsible for delivering it to the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this e-
mail is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify us by reply e-mail and delete this e-mail from your records. Thank you for your 
cooperation. 
From: Gonzalez, Patricia [mailto 
Sent: Thursday, January 29, 2015 3:29 PM 
To: Tonja Haddad Coleman 
Cc: Cartwright, Lachlan 
Subject: National Enquirer Comment Request Re: Jeffrey Epstein 
Importance: High 
Tonja--
The National ENQUIRER is preparing to publish a story that Bill Clinton used a private "orgy" jet to travel to 
Brunei for an extraordinary dinner with a royal accused of duping American women into "white slavery." 
The ENQUIRER will report that Bill was accompanied by the 727's owner, billionaire pedophile Jeffrey Epstein, 
when he landed in the tiny South-East Asian country on May 25, 2002. His entourage also included two 
women who allegedly worked as "madams" for Epstein, luring teenaged girls into sex trysts with the tycoon 
and his powerful and famous friends. 
According to The ENQUIRER's investigation, Bill spent the day playing golf at a seven-star hotel -- and then was 
invited to dine with Brunei's sultan, Hassanal Bolkiah .....who was charged with holding a deeply-religious 
Christian beauty queen as a "human chattel." Far from being embarrassed by the ruler's tawdry 
reputation, moreover, records for Bill's nonprofit foundation reveal that Brunei made a donation towards his 
Clinton Presidential Library that year of between $1. million and $5 million. 
Please kindly attempt to provide any comment by 4 pm ET tomorrow, Friday January 30th to Lachlan 
Cartwright, Executive Editor, at [Office] or 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031994 
Thank You, 
Patricia Gonzalez 
The National Enquirer 
Office# 
E-mail: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031995 
