From: Barnaby Marsh 
Sent: 7/8/2017 2:55:06 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: 
Importance: High 
perhaps its not the important dimension? If some share advantages of luck and otherse dont, the curve flattens, 
or becomes bimodal. one can imagine the fomation of "lucky enclaves" where luck is actually manufactured in 
a sense, and effects kept inthe group and further amplified. In a way, it is a kind of "market" to capture unusual 
events or to create cascades of events that would be otherwise difficult to create, anticipate, or predict?. I was at 
lunch yesterday with Dan Rose and he was saying that all of the major real estate families in NYC (excepting 
Trump) collectively think of the longer-term consequences of their actions for the larger group of dynasties. 
How do these "intentinal" actions affect the natrual probability distributions? Perhaps not at all (!!!) but they 
might shift the curve or displace others at different places in the aggregate population (the curve). Lets keeep 
thinking. 
BTW, this also has implication for my life (and yours)- we want to be members of various "lucky groups" 
(physical, mental, emotional, intellectual, etc), and if we pick the right sub-group, there will be natural 
regression to the mean in that group.... so, surround yourself with people as gifted or more, and use the power of 
RTM? Sometimes, it only works if the gaps are not too large, but I have found it a very useful heuristic in life.... 
in lots of areas. 
When are you back? 
On Sat, Jul 8, 2017 at 8:21 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
since luck is not zero sum. cant figure out how to move up the curve. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032550 
