From: Larry Visoski 
Sent: 9/16/2017 7:57:47 PM 
To: Je vacation [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
CC: Darren Indyke ; Rich Kahn 
Subject: Cuba trip 
Attachments: CUBA TRAVEL DOCUMENTATION 11 JAN 2017.docx; Untitled attachment 482987.txt 
Jeffrey 
I've contact universal ref Cuba trip: 
Attached is current form they are utilizing,. 
See note from UVAir below: 
Hello Larry, 
This year we have had quite a few successful Cuba trips with clients over the past year or so that Cuba 
travel has resumed. Attached are the rules and regulations that we currently operate under. 
Keep in mind on 16 Jun 2017, President Donald Trump has announced changes that are to come regarding 
Cuban and us relations. This means the regulations are being rewritten to reflect these changes and are 
to be published 30-90 days from that date. We do not have advance notice on how the regulations will be 
written or exactly how it will affect our Cuba licensing but we are sure they will have some impact on 
us 
Until further notice we are still utilizing the attached information. I will keep an eye out for updates 
on Cuba restrictions; however, we should start the process as we have in the past. 
We will need the following documents form you: 
1. In the attached document on page number 10 there is a "cubia BIS Certification Form" we will need this 
filled out by the PIC for the trip. This is a self-authorization form for the aircraft and should be kept 
on file after the trip in case the Department of Treasury asks for it in the future. 
2. We will also need the "Passenger certification" form for each passenger on board. They will need to 
advise purpose of travel under section 1. If they do not fall under any of those then they will need a 
specific license from the Department of Treasury. 
After we receive the above documents for the aircraft and passengers we can start arranging handing and 
landing permits for the trip. 
Thank you, 
William McLendon 
Senior Mission Advisor 
Trip Support Services 
Universal weather and Aviation, Inc 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033251 
