From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 5/17/2016 1:56:20 PM 
To: Gerald Barton 
Subject: Re: 
thanks for filling me in 
On Tue, May 17, 2016 at 3:53 PM, Gerald Barton 
My Extraordinarily Talented, Outrageous Friend, 
wrote: 
Thank you for asking how I am doing. The short answer is very well. I hope that you are in good health and 
continue to use your special talents to make the world a better place and for your somewhat unique 
amusements. 
The longer answer to your question is that at the end of 2014 I closed down the office of Landmark, transferred 
all of the assets to pay all of the major creditors, except me, and found myself as broke as I was when you first 
called me that Friday after Thanksgiving, with my only remaining assets, a large capital loss, my reputation, 
and my energy. 
Since then, our luck has been better than even an optimist like me would expect. Being free of the $500,000 a 
day I was fined by the OTS, after several years they abandoned this fine, which was initiated strictly to ensure 
that I had no opportunity to finance any new developments, I became involved with an extraordinary, large, 
important real estate development in Oklahoma City and two others in the D.C. area. 
The bad news is that my dear friend and good partner, Aubrey McClendon, was killed in a single car accident 
on March 2nd of this year and the development with great potential is now either delayed or abandoned. The 
good news is that our involvement in a 1,000 acre development on Deep Creek Lake in western Maryland is in 
the process of being financed and should be underway sometime this summer. Our second project is a 405 
acre development in Harper's Ferry, West Virginia, that is probably the prettiest piece of property I know of in 
the U.S. that is zoned and developable. Its business plan is now underway and we should be in the financing 
mode this fall. My impression is that there is a tremendous amount of money on the sidelines, but the top 5% 
or 10% that control it are terribly frightened of losing money they don't need, while the 90% to 95% of the 
citizens are continuing their daily labors somewhat frightened that they are not certain where next month's or 
next year's mortgage payment is coming from. 
On a lighter note, Donald Trump recently bought our development in Ireland, Doonbeg Golf Club. It has been 
rated the first or second best resort in Europe. To-date, to my surprise, he is managing it reasonably well, 
probably because he is presently devoted to an endeavor that amuses him. 
Jeffrey, I want you to understand that I am extremely pleased and not at all melancholy about my present 
circumstances. Whenever I get an opportunity, I always visit those assets I helped create and almost without 
exception, I wish I had been smarter, but generally satisfied that I made a positive contribution and one much 
higher than normally done by my competitors, because I am fortunate that the labor focus of my life has not 
attracted the best and the brightest. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032865 
When good fortune brings you to the D.C. area, please let me know. I always enjoy understanding your 
activities and do so with amazement and amusement. 
Jerry 
On Mon, May 16, 2016 at 3:56 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
how are you 
On Mon, May 16, 2016 at 2:35 PM, Gerald Barton wrote: 
Jeffrey, 
I am certainly glad that you have thick skin and care little about what the press says. I am sorry that you 
have to appear tolerant against intolerance. 
From all appearances, you fulfill the challenge of Kipling when he said: 
"If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, 
Or walk with Kings - nor lose the common touch, 
If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you, 
If all men count with you, but none too much." 
In spite of outward appearances, I know very few know how you really feel and I can only hope that that 
feeling is shown best in the naming of your airplane. 
Jerru 
Gerald G. Barton 
The Barton Development Group, Inc. 
1993 Moreland Parkway, Suite 204 
Annapolis, MD 21401 
Direct Line: 
Fax: 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032866 
I 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
Gerald G. Barton 
The Barton Development Group, Inc. 
1993 Moreland Parkway, Suite 204 
Annapolis, MD 21401 
Direct Line: IM 
Fax: 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032867 
