From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 10/30/2014 2:50:38 AM 
To: Nil Priell Barak 
Subject: Re: 
begining edits 
David Ben Gurion was asked why he, after 2000 
years, in contrast to the many great leaders in 
the past was uniquely able to re -established the 
State of Israel. BG responded that he thought that 
it must have been true that in ancient times people 
had been born with a sixth sense. The one 
enabling individuals to have the ability 
to recognize and the seize opportunities. Though 
few of those individuals remain I think I am one of 
the fortunate few. He didn't mentioned the horrors 
or the sacrifice of the 48' war. I believe 
Menachem Begin had it,as several years after the 
bitter 73' war he was able to make a daring 
peace with Egypt. Als lzhak Rabin,who now 20yrs 
ago, signed the Peace treaty with Jordan though 
in amidst a wave of terror. He faced huge internal 
rejection but it began the first baby steps towards 
a settlement with the Palestinians. As we all know 
he was assassinated by a Jewish terrorist. These 
leaders all faced many risks, yet were able to see 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032162 
and seize an opportunity. Statesmanship and 
leadership.. 
During the last three years we have been living 
through a geo political earthquake. The world 
order, which existed since the demise of the 
Ottoman Empire, is collapsing.The Arab Spring 
appears to have turned into an Islamist Winter. 
Borders are erased. Old tribal and sectarian 
disputes have awakened. In perfect storm like 
fashion Israel now finds itself surrounded by 
clashes of civilizations, in addition to the Islam 
confrontation between fanatic terror and moderna, 
Suna and Shia, the legacy threats: Iran, Assad in 
Syria, Hezbullah in Lebanon,Hamas in Gaza are 
all still active and worrying. 
we have to be alert and ready to strongly respond 
to any threat to our security.. 
But I believe new opportunities are there for the 
taking. This opportunity,which might not occur 
again for generations ,is the potential to reshape 
our relationships with the Arab Moderates based 
on our common concerns. Extremism, Terror and 
Iran. This could open the gate to a more peaceful 
Middle East based on cooperation and synergies 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032163 
rather than blood and revenge. However thers is, 
in my opnion n o way to achieve but to move 
forward with the Palestinians 
A precondition to seize such an opportunity is a 
mighty, sober, self confident Israel, in strong 
alliance with the US. An Israel which can deter or 
defeat any combination of regional powers, yet, an 
Israel who is ready to contemplate and consider a 
modified Saudi or Arab League Plan as a basis for 
negotiations. 
The unique relationship we have developed with 
the US over the last 45yrs based on common 
values ,mutual respect and shared interests is a 
cornerstone of our strength, world posture and 
our future. It is also a crucial building block of any 
regional peace and cooperation strategy.Allowing 
IL/US relations to remain damaged, I believe is a 
grave mistake with potentially far reaching 
consequences. 
As the Minister of Defense of Israel I've met more 
than once with President Obama , as well as with 
President Bush before him„ reiterating with both 
that the though the US is clearly our best friend 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032164 
and ally, Israel is a Sovereign state and when our 
security and the future of Israel and the Jewish 
people are at stake we might need to take 
tough decisions on our own. We cannot and will 
not, I added, delegate the responsibility for such 
decisions to even our best friends ,. We respect 
the fact that we might have different views. 
American Presidents have always understood that 
. We also must have the same respect when the 
US decides it is its interest to take decisions we 
might not fully agree with. 
this relation is of course not fully symmetric. It is 
the US which will provides Israel with the new F-
35s and ensures the Qualitative Edge of the IDF 
vis a vis any combination of neighbors. It is the 
US who significantly financed the Iron Dome, 
Arrow and David's Sling missile defense systems. 
It is the US that has commited to defend Israel in 
the event of a missile attack from Iran. 
We should never forget it. 
The recent spurt of verbal exchanges is a 
worrying signal that something has gone wrong. It 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032165 
needs corrrection.. Netanyahu is not a coward. 
I've seen him as a young special forces 
officer ,under my command, facing fire directly and 
taking risks to his life. A very courageous soldier. 
That will never change. cheap words serve little 
purpose .The same applies to President Obama 
and Secretary Kerry. they are not enemies of 
Israel. they are Good Friends. Kerry has exhibited 
decades long support for Israel. Since he became 
Secretary of State he has invested his time 
energy and prestige trying to help Israel and the 
Palestinians to bridge disputes and reach a 
breakthrough. it was a noble effort which 
should justify thanks rather than accustations. We 
are of course concerned by the lack of outcome of 
the P5+1 negotiations with Iran and we think that 
the chemical weapons removal from Syria could 
have been handled differently But President 
Obama strengthens the legacy of Presidential 
support for Israel.. Israel has a vital interest in 
resuming the healthy trust, and mutual respect 
that existed until recently. 
. I believe that the most profound internal debate 
inside Israel today is in regard to the relationship 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032166 
between Israel's security needs and the viability of 
the "two states solution". We all agree that we are 
living in a tough, merciless and highly 
unpredictable neighborhood..So it is clear that our 
security needs are of the highest priority and we 
should build certain "safety margins" into any 
future security planning.But the Israeli Right is 
going too far by arguing that the security needs of 
Israel renders any viable,demilitarized 
independent, Palestinian State - impossible. 
In other words, the " lesson" of recent years 
according to our Right is that Israel's Security and 
the "two states solution" are incompatible. I believe 
this is a fallacious conclusion, driven by narrow 
political interests. 
I've served a lifetime career, fighting and 
defending my country's security. Most of the time 
in uniform. Based on this experience ,I confidently 
conclude,and it is a professional rather than 
political answer, that if and when a Palestinian 
demilitarized independent State will be established 
side by side with Israel behind borders which will 
consist of a solid Jewish majority for generations 
to come and will include the major "Settlement 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032167 
Blocks" accompanied by mutually agreed swaps 
and an Israeli long term military presence along 
the River Jordan - the IDF and the 
SecurityServices will be capable 
of defending Israel. Moreover, I'm confident that 
if we will bring together all former Israeli Chiefs of 
Staff, all former Commanders of the Central 
Command( responsible for Judea and Samaria) 
and all former Heads of Intelligence ,SecServices 
and Mossad, an extremely vast majority of them 
will agree with me on this issue. True,it might take 
time, frustrations and setbacks. It might have to go 
through prolonged periods of interim 
arrangements. but the IDF is much superior to any 
conceivable rival and will be able to defend Israel 
under all those circumstances. 
the Right argument is convoluted, the opposite is 
true. The real big threat to the Zionist Project is not 
the "two state solution" but rather the "one state 
solution" which will lead inevitably to either a non 
Jewish or a non democratic, potentially ever 
bleeding State. Still,this is the vision the Israeli 
extreme Right shares unknowingly with the Hamas 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032168 
(and with all due differences with the lunatic, Post 
Zionist fringes of the Israeli Left). 
In order to seize the opportunity for regional peace 
and cooperation arrangements and in order to 
block the deterioration towards "one state solution" 
action, tenacity and decisiveness will be essential. 
politics of survival, anxiety and pessimism will not 
do. 
we are facing a moment of truth. a time for daring 
decisions.The essence of Zionism, its raison d'être 
had always been to take our fate in our hands. 
make decisions and follow them with actions, 
rather than being dragged by events and decisions 
of others and paying the price for it. 
our legendary Foreign Minister Abba Eban 
famously said that the Palestinians had never 
missed an opportunity to miss an opportunity. Lets 
not fall into the same trap. 
On Wed, Oct 29, 2014 at 7:12 PM, Nil Priell Barak 
herewith the Op Ed. Please let me know your opinion and your remarks. 
thanks, 
EB 
wrote: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032169 
Herewith 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032170 
