From: Mitchell Bard 
on behalf of Mitchell Bard____________________________________ 
Sent: 7/4/2019 12:46:27 PM 
To: jeevacation@gmail.com 
Subject: Reminder: AICE Update: Did the British promise the Arabs independence in Palestine? 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032012 
Did the British promise the Arabs independence in 
Palestine? 
In July 1915, Hussein ibn 'Ali, the Sherif of 
Mecca, sent a letter to Sir Henry MacMahon, 
the High Commissioner for Egypt, informing 
him of the terms for Arab participation in the 
war against the Turks. The letters between 
Hussein and Mac-Mahon that followed outlined 
the areas that Britain was prepared to cede to 
the Arabs in exchange for their help. 
- 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032013 
Click here to read more...  
Donate Today 
Trump's Saudi Arms Sale Is About Politics and 
Economics, Not Security 
by Mitchell Bard 
President Trump wants to use his emergency 
powers to sell billions of dollars' worth of 
weapons to Saudi Arabia on national security 
grounds. Congress wants to stop the sale 
because of lingering anger over Saudi abuses 
and the murder of journalist Jamal 
Khashoggi, and the usurpation of its legal 
authority to review arms sales. Both sides are 
ingenuous. The willingness to sell the Saudis - 
weapons has little to do with American national security, and 
everything to do with economics and politics. 
Click here to read more...  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032014 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032015 
Travel 
Israel  
Religion 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032016 
New This Week 
Arizona-Israel Cooperation 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032017 
The U.S.-Israel relationship is based on the twin pillars of shared 
values and mutual interests. Given this commonality of interests and 
beliefs, it should not be surprising that support for Israel is one of the 
most pronounced and consistent foreign policy values of the American 
people. 
Today's interdependent global economy requires that trade policy be 
developed at the national and state level. Many states have 
recognized the opportunity for realizing significant benefits by seeking 
to increase trade with Israel. Arizona is one of 33 states that have 
cooperative agreements with Israel. 
Click here to read more...  
Views on Israel of U.S. Presidential Candidates 2020: 
Amy Klobuchar 
Amy Jean Klobuchar* was born on May 25, 1960, in Plymouth, 
Minnesota. Klobuchar is the daughter of Rose (née Heuberger) and 
Jim Klobuchar. She has one younger sister. Her parents divorced 
when Klobuchar was 15. 
Klobuchar attended public schools in Plymouth and was valedictorian 
at Wayzata High School. In 1982, she graduated from Yale magna 
cum laude with a B.A. in political science. During college, she was a 
member of the Yale College Democrats, the Feminist Caucus, and the 
improv troupe Suddenly Susan. During her time at Yale, Klobuchar 
spent time as an intern for then Vice President, and former Minnesota 
Senator, Walter Mondale. Her senior thesis was "Uncovering the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032018 
Dome," a history of the ten years of politics surrounding the building of 
the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis. 
Click here to read more...  
Check our ongoing updates on 2020 presidential candidates 
Nazi Collaborators - Mufti Amin al-Husseini 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032019 
June Israel Quiz 
June Holocaust Quiz 
Israel is 71! Test yourself with our 
Israel quiz! 
Click here to take the quiz 
How much do you know about 
the holiday of Passover? 
Click here to take the quiz 
Download the Jewish Virtual Library App! 
Click Here to Download on the Google Play Store  
Click Here to Download on the Apple App Store  
Support AICE When You Shop at Amazon! 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032020 
When shopping at Amazon, please be sure 
to shop using Amazon Smile, and select 
AICE as your chosen charity. Its an easy 
way to help out, and a portion of your 
purchase supports our projects. 
Click Here to Donate Today 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032021 
You can also text rosh2018 to 71777 to donate 
Thank You for Your Support. 
American-Israeli Cooperative Enterprise I 2810 Blaine Dr., Chevy Chase, MD 20815 
Unsubscribe jeevacation@gmail.com  
Update Profile I About Constant Contact 
Sent by 
in collaboration with 
Try email marketing for free today! 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 032022 
