From: Kathy Ruemmler 
Sent: 12/4/2018 3:20:07 PM 
To: jeeyacation@gmail.com 
Subject: Slowing economy could increase pressure on Big Tech - Axios 
Importance: High 
What do we think of this? 
https://www.axios.com/recession-threat-2019-regulatory-risk-google-facebook-amazon-b8966b22-57dc-426c-
9f4f-5526982383c7.html  
Slowing economy could increase pressure on 
Big Tech 
Sara Fischer, David McCabe, Courtenay Brown5 hours ago 
A potential recession, combined with increasing regulatory threats for some of the biggest 
tech companies, foreshadows a difficult 2019 for Silicon Valley. 
Why it matters: The biggest tech companies have already raked in billions of dollars in 
profits and benefited from major tax cuts that aren't going to be repeated, so next year isn't 
likely to be better for them financially. They've also been dogged by scandals that have left 
many questioning their positive role in society, and if on top of that the economy starts to 
slip, 2019 could be worse. 
"People look for scapegoats in a bad economy. And with big tech already on its heels, a 
downturn probably would feed arguments that the largest internet companies are too big 
and need to be reined in." 
— Paul Gallant, an analyst with Cowen Washington Research Group 
Big Tech is closing out a contentious year in Washington, and potential regulation will 
continue to haunt it well into 2019. 
• Google CEO Sundar Pichai has agreed to testify before Congress, and will likely be 
asked about whether the company is being transparent about its data privacy practices and 
any potential bias. By the year's end, the CEOs of Twitter, Google and Facebook will have 
been called to testified in front of Congress for the first time ever during 2018. 
• Lawmakers in the United States are pushing for a federal privacy law with an urgency 
likely to be exacerbated by more breaches like the one Marriott disclosed last Friday. 
• The Federal Trade Commission still has an open investigation into whether 
Facebook's conduct violated a previous settlement with the agency. Margrethe Vestager, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033420 
Europe's aggressive commissioner overseeing competition, is still investigating aspects of 
Google's business and whether Amazon plays fair in the market for generic products. 
• President Trump has said his administration is seriously looking into monopolistic 
behavior of Facebook, Google and Amazon. 
Some analysts predict an economic slowdown___even if it doesn't lead to a recession like 
the one in 2008___will be enough to change the global attitude around big American 
companies. 
"So the really shocking thing this year is that the only major economy in the world where 
growth has actually accelerated this year is America. And this is because of the tax cuts, the 
deregulation, the other stimulus which has been put into work. And that has also helped the 
earnings of companies. My point is, from next year onwards, those effects begin to fade." 
— Ruchir Sharma, chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley on Fareed Zakaria GPS  
on Sunday 
The "FAANG" stocks (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google) that pushed the 
stock market to record highs have not been immune from this year's market rout. 
• "The mood has changed. Investors are asking a lot more questions right now," says 
Larry Glazer, a Managing Partner at Mayflower Advisors, which manages $3 billion. 
"Momentum has faded on these names." 
• Adding to potential concern: possible regulatory action could translate into higher 
costs, particularly for Google or Facebook. 
• "Facebook has been under such a dark cloud for so long that now everybody is 
expecting the worst," Paul Meeks, a technology portfolio manager at Wireless Fund, told 
Amos. 
The other side: "I don't see a looming recession. And even if there was, people aren't going 
to target these companies if there is a recession," says Nicholas Economides, Professor of 
Economics at NYU Stem School of Business. 
• Economides argues that, even if there was a mild reduction in GDP growth, it 
wouldn't significantly impact the high tech sector. 
• For companies like Google, Facebook and Twitter, "their main revenue streams are 
from ads. They gain market share from brands converting traditional ad spend to digital ads. 
This conversion is not so dependent on the growth of GDP, because they are still in the 
process of converting ads of different formats to digital ads, and that's something that will 
continue, regardless of GDP growth." 
The bottom line: Tech companies that have long been the darlings of investor portfolios 
will likely find themselves in much weaker positions. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033421 
