From: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 8/24/2017 6:01:15 PM 
To: Masha Drokova 
Subject: Re: Questions for article 
Importance: High 
I have helped scientists for 20 years. I dont bleive you can say you fully understand a problem unless your 
ideas can be tested against the evidence. . mathermatics described in one simple equation the motion of the 
planets that had alluded men for ages. . When asked what was the most important scientific invention for most 
people. . though people like me said air conditioning? the consensus was ,„ eyeglasses. letting people read 
past the age of 40. 
On Thu, Aug 24, 2017 at 1:22 AM, Masha Drokova 
Jeffrey, 
wrote: 
Huffington Post is almost done with their article. They need couple answers to use them for your quotes. 
Please see below. 
Questions for you: 
1. As a result of Trump's budget cuts, more scientists are turning to private donors for funds. How have you 
helped these scientists thrive during this time in particular? 
2. Why do you think it's important to have funded the Program for Evolutionary Dynamics and how will this 
program help us in the future? 
Questions for a scientist (can I ask Martin to answer and quote him)? 
1. How has Jeffery Epstein's donations helped you advance your research? 
Let me know if you have any questions or comments. Would appreciate speedy response. 
Thank you! 
Masha 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033015 
