From: Larry Visoski 
Sent: 2/1/2017 1:24:27 AM 
To: Je vacation [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: President PBI FYI 
Jeffrey 
Trump in PBI Fed 3rd thru 5th,. FYI„ 
When PresTrump is visiting MarLago PBI there will be flight restrictions flying in and out of palm beach„ due 
to location of MarLago,. 
There will be GateWay airports you have to depart from in order to land PBI„ 
Teterboro is a gateway departure airport, requires 24 hour notice just like our DCA program, 
When Trump is in MarLago, we will be unable to land in Palm Bch departing from LSJ„ we can land Fort 
Lauderdale Excutive airport, which isn't bad, they are offering $2.76 fuel price this weekend„ 
Same with departure from PBI, need 24 hour notice when President is in town„ 
See message from PBI Port: 
Important Message: All Palm Beach County Airport Users 
We are getting word and expecting a President of the United States (POTUS) visit to PBI / Mar-a-
Lago from Feb 3, 2017 (afternoon?) until Feb. 5, 2017. Times to be established. 
Expect the FAA's Temporary Flight Restriction paperwork to be posted at least 72 hours prior to the POTUS 
arrival. 
The following two airports are in the inner core, inside lONM TFR. 
PBI Airport; All General Aviation traffic into PBI must clear TSA designated "Gateways" for both arrival and 
departures into and out of PBI. Departure Gateways - We expect the Gateways to be established at the multiple 
locations at PBI with TSA operating from 0800-1700 and requires prior reservation (24hrs) with TSA. Arrival 
Gateways — Expect Ft. Lauderdale International Airport (FLL) and Orlando Int'l (MCO). Also expecting 
Teterboro, Dulles, and White Plains as additional gateways. 
LNA Airport; As initially established by the USSS, the Palm Beach County Park Airport (LNA) in Lantana, 
FL will be closed to all departures and flight training. Only arrivals into LNA that have gone through the TSA 
Gateway program at one of the designated airports (FLL/MCO) may fly into LNA during the TFR. 
The 30NM outer core will also be in effect and measures will be posted in the FAA NOTAM/TFR release. 
Please share this advisory with all aviation users. 
Regards, 
Peter E. Labbe, Director 
Operations & Security 
Department of Airports 
Palm Beach International Airport 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033218 
Sent from my iPhone 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033219 
