From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 7/13/2018 11:11:16 AM 
To: Paul Barrett 
Importance: High 
• Richard Kahn 
Im not angry, sorry, it is sad. it is apparent that you have no experience trading. we both made a 
mistake. . the spy trades were the results of a rank amatuer. . you took a postion on the direction of the 
market. ok. you decided to play it extra short time and short. . why? becaue the options are cheaper. 
? knowing full well that time premium was running. . first silly move. . I allowed as promised to give you 
authority. . you set a target. . it hit the traget, you moved in back. based on media reporting on trump 
visit? you didnt act. the market dipped and you panicked. . AMATEUR. wrong options wrong timing, 
no discipline and as a percentaage of investment, a one day dip fof 25%. wanting to buy the highter strike , is 
ok. but why the same month? why the same moment. why the same index. . sorry. I have taught this for 
many years. and your grade is an F. not one good move in many. . re broadcom. the crack happend in 
the morning, options were higher. no alternative presented. no analysis. , this is no way to manage 
money. I have lost a great deal of money hoping you would be able to do as you promised you could . would. 
. Had you told me, jeffrey I d like to try a new job as a manager lets start slow I can learn. i would be 
less annoyed. you told me you had great confidence knew the risks and truly believed you would be able to 
raise money .do well and prosper. . If it were not you, this would have ended months ago. . we should 
work on a solution. not sure yet what shape it takes. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 033097 
