From: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 5/4/2016 6:28:25 PM 
To: soon yi previn 
Subject: Fwd: woody and deadline 
??? 
----------Forwarded message---------- 
From: Lisa New < 
Date: Wed, May 4, 2016 at 2:25 PM 
Subject: woody and deadline 
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Dear Jeffrey, 
Woody has received from his lawyer some questions I asked in in response to the agreement Irwin Tenenbaum 
sent me... .1 found that that agreement generous and reasonable (!), and I'm excited to go forward, but I do need 
those clarifications. We can absolutely agree that we will not give Woody larger or more important billing than 
Bill Clinton or Joe Biden, and that I'd like to come to him to renew our agreement after five years. 
The Harvard week of content in which Woody will appear, if we can sign this, needs to be edited in the next 
week-10 days. We are out of time, which is why I'm writing 
The television show has been picked up by American Public Television, they will distribute nationally, and 
they've asked for another 5 episodes. I so want Woody to be one of those. 
I'd like to see the haiku written by computer. Haiku is not that hard. I'd like to see an elegy written by 
computer. 
Lisa 
Elisa New 
Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature 
Harvard University 
148 Barker Center 
12 Quincy Street 
Cambridge, MA 
02138 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029269 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029270 
