Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette is serving her 8th term in
Congress as the Representative of the First District in Colorado. Diana has
established herself as a leader for progressive change on LGBT rights, health
care, reproductive rights, food safety, consumer protection and the
environment.
Diana serves on the powerful Committee on Energy and Commerce where
she has used her position to improve health care, expand medical research,
reform corporate business and accounting practices, ensure that our
homeland is adequately protected, take on global climate change, and move
America toward energy independence.
She has led the efforts to expand the State Children's Health Insurance
Program (SCHIP), which provides health insurance to low-income children
up to age 18. Diana was a leader in the expansion of this program that
was signed into law by President Obama in February of 2009.
Diana was the chief architect of legislation to expand stem cell research,
which was passed twice with broad, bipartisan support in Congress. One of
Congress’s leading experts on cutting-edge scientific research, Diana is the
author of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act which would ensure a
lasting ethical framework overseeing stem cell research at the National
Institutes of Health (NIH) and will provide stability to the scientists and
individuals who are on the quest for life-saving cures.
As co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Diabetes Caucus, Diana has
also been a long-time advocate for the expansion of diabetes care and
research, particularly for lower-income and minority communities.
Come and Join
Congresswoman Diana DeGette
in New York City
September 27 th , 2012
“Science’s Voice in Congress”
Approved by Diana DeGette for Congress
United in Stockholm – Now in New York City
Please join
Barbro Ehnbom
Florence P. Haseltine, MD, PhD
Karin Hehenberger, MD, PhD
Ambassador Karin Palmquist
Christine Rappoport
for
a reception with
Congresswoman Diana DeGette
on
Thursday, September 27, 2012
6:00 P.M. – 8:00 P.M.
Congresswoman Diana DeGette (center) in Stockholm,
Sweden with Barbro Ehnbom (left), Chairwoman
Swedish-American Life Science Summit and Swedish
Ambassador Karin Palmquist (right). Diana was
honored to be the keynote speaker at the Swedish-
American Life Science Summit in August 2009.
at
The Home of Christine Rappoport
993 Park Avenue
New York, NY
Contribution Levels
Host - $2,500 • Patron - $1,000
Supporter - $500 • Friend - $250 • Guest - $100
To RSVP, please contact Barbro Ehnbom
at (212) 228-3210 or behnbom@aol.com
Approved by Diana DeGette for Congress
