A POWERFUL BILLIONAIRE, 
THE SEX SCANDAL THAT UNDID HIM, AND ALL 
THE JUSTICE THAT MONEY CAN BUY: 
THE SHOCKING TRUE STORY OF JEFFREY EPSTEIN 
1426 
Interviewer: "It's the 
too close to the sun." 
Jeffrey Epstein: "Did 
Copyright CO 2016 by James Patterson 
Excerpt from Cross the Line copyright © 2016 by James Patterson 
Hachette Book Group supports the right to free expression and the value of 
copyright. The purpose of copyright is to encourage writers and artists to 
produce the creative works that enrich our culture. 
The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book without permission 
is a theft of the author's intellectual property. If you would like permission 
to use material from the book (other than for review purposes), please con-
tact permissions@hbgusa.com. Thank you for your support of the author's 
rights. 
Little, Brown and Company 
Hachette Book Group 
1290 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10104 
littlebrown.com 
First Edition: October 2016 
Little, Brown and Company is a division of Hachette Book Group, Inc. The 
Little, Brown name and logo are trademarks of Hachette Book Group, Inc. 
The publisher is not responsible for websites (or their content) that are not 
owned by the publisher. 
The Hachette Speakers Bureau provides a wide range of authors for speaking 
events. To find out more, go to hachettespeakersbureau.com or call (866) 
376-6591. 
ISBN 978-0-316-27405-0 (hc) / 978-0-316-31758-0 (large print) 
LCCN 2016946084 
10 9 8 7 6 5 43 2 1 
LSC-C 
Printed in the United States of America 
016 by James Patterson 
to free expression and the value of 
o encourage writers and artists to 
ir culture. 
n of this book without permission 
Ierty. If you would like permission 
n for review purposes), please con-
)1.1 for your support of the author's 
NY 10104 
). of Hachette Book Group, Inc. The 
.rks of Hachette Book Group, Inc. 
)sites (or their content) that are not 
a wide range of authors for speaking 
tespeakersbureau.com or call (866) 
6-31758-0 (large print) 
Interviewer: "It's the Icarus story—someone who flies 
too close to the sun." 
Jeffrey Epstein: "Did Icarus like massages?" 
—New York City, 2007 
AUTHOR'S NOTE 
Late one afternoon, while taking a leisurely stroll on the Upper 
East Side of Manhattan, Tim Malloy, a friend of mine and a col-
laborator on this book, nearly ran into a trim, silver-haired 
neighbor of ours from Palm Beach. 
The man was walking down Madison Avenue, and several 
things about him were striking. For one thing, he was wearing 
slippers. Expensive, embroidered, monogrammed slippers. But 
slippers all the same. 
For another, he was accompanied by two attractive women. 
Even in Manhattan, an island that attracts beautiful women from 
all over the world, these women stood out. 
As the man half shuffled, half walked down the avenue, the 
women walked slightly behind him, as if they were attendants or 
staff. 
Tim followed, keeping a respectable distance, as the three-
some made a right onto 71st Street and headed toward an enor-
mous town house— a house that was almost a fortress—right 
vii 
AUTHOR'S NOTE 
in the middle of the block. The imposing residence had a stone 
facade and a fifteen-foot-high front door that wouldn't have 
looked out of place protecting a castle. And, like our neighbor's 
slippers, the house had a monogram: raised brass letters that 
spelled out JE. 
The house and, quite possibly, the two women belonged to 
Jeffrey Epstein, a rich and powerful man who was also a regis-
tered sex offender with a strong taste for underage women. 
Not just sixteen- and seventeen-year-olds. But younger girls 
as well. 
Epstein was alleged to have abused dozens of young women, 
or, more accurately, girls. He'd settled potential lawsuits with 
some of them. He'd done a bit of prison time for his crimes. A bit 
of time. And now here he was, out in the world again. 
Accompanied by two beautiful young women. 
I had been hearing hair-raising stories about Jeffrey Epstein for a 
couple of years. Our interests could not have been more differ-
ent, but Palm Beach, where we both live, is small and tightly 
knit, and we knew some of the same people. 
Epstein's arrest had made headlines in papers all over the 
world. But in Palm Beach, it caused a scandal that continues to 
set off aftershocks and leave a bad smell. 
So I had followed Epstein's case in the media and talked 
about it over dinners with friends. I wondered why it had taken 
so long for the Palm Beach police to catch up with Epstein. And, 
once they did, why he had served so little jail time. 
Those were the obvious questions, but there were others: 
How had Epstein made his money, possibly billions? No one 
viii 
seemed to know. And w 
about the underage girls 
had happened at the morn 
Epstein definitely Ilk( 
even three, young wom( 
island. He'd been operat 
who were these girls? WI 
find their way to his horn 
Epstein had powerful 
in his private jet and rubt 
Prize winners, any numl 
man sixth in line to the B 
Were any of these co 
now a free man? 
I wanted to know. Aft 
and Epstein's actions had 
where I lived. Stirred by t 
Tim Malloy and I began t 
We partnered with 
journalist who had once I 
following the Epstein sto: 
Working together, we 
the way back to his chil( 
tances, employees, neight 
with the families of his 
ment officers who'd wonl 
and lawyers on all sides 
which are still working ti 
Combining our inter 
from court filings and 
AUTHOR'S NOTE 
NoTE 
'posing residence had a stone 
mit door that wouldn't have 
tstle. And, like our neighbor's 
ram: raised brass letters that 
, the two women belonged to 
ul man who was also a regis-
;te for underage women. 
n-year-olds. But younger girls 
ased dozens of young women, 
flied potential lawsuits with 
ison time for his crimes. A bit 
in the world again. 
tng women. 
ries about Jeffrey Epstein for a 
id not have been more differ-
oth live, is small and tightly 
le people. 
Lanes in papers all over the 
:c1 a scandal that continues to 
smell. 
ase in the media and talked 
I wondered why it had taken 
o catch up with Epstein. And, 
;o little jail time. 
tions, but there were others: 
ey, possibly billions? No one 
seemed to know. And while the news media had some details 
about the underage girls, reporters seemed only to know what 
had happened at the moment of his arrest. 
Epstein definitely liked his massages. He got them from two, 
even three, young women a day, right in his mansion on the 
island. He'd been operating on an almost industrial scale. But 
who were these girls? Where had they come from? How did they 
find their way to his home on a secluded street in Palm Beach? 
Epstein had powerful friends. He'd flown Bill Clinton around 
in his private jet and rubbed shoulders with heads of state, Nobel 
Prize winners, any number of billionaires. Prince Andrew, the 
man sixth in line to the British throne, had been a close friend. 
Were any of these connections the reason that Epstein was 
now a free man? 
I wanted to know. After all, our homes were a half mile apart, 
and Epstein's actions had had an undeniable impact on the town 
where I lived. Stirred by that sighting of Epstein up in New York, 
Tim Malloy and I began to investigate. 
We partnered with John Connolly, a tough, no-nonsense 
journalist who had once been a cop with the NYPD and had been 
following the Epstein story for close to ten years. 
Working together, we interviewed Epstein's friends, going all 
the way back to his childhood; we met with Epstein's acquain-
tances, employees, neighbors, and business associates, and finally 
with the families of his victims. We interviewed law enforce-
ment officers who'd worked on the investigation in Palm Beach 
and lawyers on all sides of the resulting court cases, some of 
which are still working their way through the court system. 
Combining our interview material with evidence obtained 
from court filings and other investigations, such as the one 
ix 
AUTHOR'S NOTE 
conducted by Connolly's Vanity Fair colleague Vicky Ward, we 
began to put the pieces together. 
In a few instances, we have re-created brief scenes and 
snatches of dialogue. These are based on interviews, police 
investigation documents, and court filings. We changed the 
names and identities of the girls, hoping to protect them from 
more embarrassment and harm. 
There never was any doubt that Jeffrey Epstein was guilty. He 
admitted as much in the non-prosecution agreement he agreed 
to sign in 2007. The question is, what exactly was he guilty of? 
This book attempts to answer that question and many others 
about this strange and mysterious man. These days people all 
around the world are angry about and suspicious of the super 
rich and powerful. The story of Jeffrey Epstein is an object lesson 
about why we ought to be. To put it simply, some people think 
they can operate outside the law. And that's what they do. 
—James Patterson, Palm Beach, February 20, 2016 
x 
NOT E 
'air colleague Vicky Ward, we 
: re-created brief scenes and 
based on interviews, police 
)urt filings. We changed the 
hoping to protect them from 
t Jeffrey Epstein was guilty. He 
secution agreement he agreed 
hat exactly was he guilty of? 
that question and many others 
,s man. These days people all 
it and suspicious of the super 
frey Epstein is an object lesson 
t it simply, some people think 
knd that's what they do. 
?alm Beach, February 20, 2016 
PART I 
The Crime 
CHAPTER I 
Mary: February 2005 
/t's a typically slow South Florida Sunday, and Mary's staring 
into the mirror, trying to wipe the morning cobwebs away 
from her dark, sleepy eyes. 
She's a pretty girl, tiny—just five feet three inches tall—but 
tanned and athletic, with curly black henna-streaked hair.* Her 
bedroom's a playland of pinks and pastels, stuffed animals, and 
boy-band posters. But Mary's a teenager now. Fourteen years old. 
She even has a boyfriend. He's cute and popular. Joe' is the heart-
throb of her school, and Mary's feelings for him are new to her, 
powerful, hard to untangle. She's thinking of Joe as she presses 
the Play button on her iPod. 
The MP3 player's on shuffle. There's no telling what song will 
* Mary's name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been changed. 
Joe's name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been changed. 
3 
JAMES PATTERSON 
come up, and Mary's head drops dramatically in anticipation. 
Then a loud, sexy throb spills out of the earbuds: Britney Spears. 
The bass line takes over, and she starts to dance, moving her 
hips as she lip-synchs the lyrics: 
With a taste of a poison paradise . . . 
Mary's swept away by the song. She's twirling around and 
around, flinging her arms out to grab the clothes hanging up in 
her closet—it's like embracing ten thousand fans! Then she stops 
and pulls out the earbuds. Suddenly she's become fourteen again. 
Just a girl, jittery, nervous. 
What she's thinking about now is what she will wear to the 
big fancy house. 
Mary desperately wants to make an impression. This will be her 
first trip to the house. She does not want to look like a child on 
this outing. 
She picks out a pair of skinny white jeans, puts on a freshly 
washed halter top that leaves her flat stomach bare. The cross 
that Joe gave her last Christmas hangs from her neck. 
Think of the money, she thinks. 
For Mary, it's incredible money. Several weeks' wages at 
Mickey D's. And just for giving some old man a massage? She 
twists the earbuds back in, dives into the closet, sings along with 
Britney Spears: 
Don't you know that you're toxic? 
The tight white jeans fit Mary perfectly. She turns to check 
herself out in the mirror, cropping the scene with her fingers to 
4 
block out the Barbies bi 
in big, high-ceilinged b( 
with natural smiles, pei 
dolls are beautiful. The, 
if Mom and Dad are w 
mothers and fathers are 
you get Barbies— passe 
sister to sister. They're n-
of knowingness to the c 
American Girl dolls are 
Barbie's dangling her lot 
from women. 
Be like Barbie, Mary t 
She can't be nervous. 
What she tells hersel 
a deal. 
But, of course, it is a 
big fancy house will bee 
police investigation— al 
the Palm Beach PD — ar 
the home's owner, Jeffrey 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
dramatically in anticipation. 
)f the earbuds: Britney Spears. 
starts to dance, moving her 
She's twirling around and 
prab the clothes hanging up in 
thousand fans! Then she stops 
ly she's become fourteen again. 
AT is what she will wear to the 
in impression. This will be her 
ot want to look like a child on 
• white jeans, puts on a freshly 
r flat stomach bare. The cross 
angs from her neck. 
)ney. Several weeks' wages at 
some old man a massage? She 
nto the closet, sings along with 
c? 
y perfectly. She turns to check 
ig the scene with her fingers to 
block out the Barbies behind her. Over on the Gold Coast, girls 
in big, high-ceilinged bedrooms have American Girl dolls. Dolls 
with natural smiles, perfectly vacant moon faces. American Girl 
dolls are beautiful. They're expensive. But you have to have one 
if Mom and Dad are willing to pay. Over on the Coast, most 
mothers and fathers are. But out in the sticks, where Mary lives, 
you get Barbies —passed down from mother to daughter, from 
sister to sister. They're rail-thin, missile-breasted. There's a touch 
of knowingness to the curl of their otherwise innocent mouths. 
American Girl dolls are girlie, but Barbie's like Britney Spears. 
Barbie's dangling her long legs over the line that separates girls 
from women. 
Be like Barbie, Mary thinks. 
She can't be nervous. Not now. Not today. 
What she tells herself, over and over again, is: It's not that big 
a deal. 
But, of course, it is a big deal. Before long, Mary's visit to the 
big fancy house will become part of a months-long Palm Beach 
police investigation—an affidavit for probable cause, filed by 
the Palm Beach PD — and, finally, the arrest and conviction of 
the home's owner, Jeffrey Epstein. 
5 
CHAPTER 2 
Jeffrey Epstein: February 2005 
Jeffrey's morning routine is precise and unvarying. First he 
spends twenty-five minutes in silence, visualizing the day 
ahead as he digests the guava, banana, and Mileslix that his 
chef prepares for him— the same way every day—at six in the 
morning. Then Jeffrey walks a third of a mile up to South County 
Road, pausing once in a while to take deep, restorative breaths. 
It's a slight slope that leads toward the ocean. Jeffrey's home 
on the Intracoastal Waterway is behind him now. The morning's 
not windy. The Atlantic is calm and glittery, and fishing trawlers 
bob gently on distant waves. 
Jeffrey's partial to monogrammed sweatpants, monogrammed 
fleece pullovers, and hoodies. Casual attire offset by embroi-
dered Stubbs & Wootton slippers— the kind that sell for hun-
dreds of dollars a pair. His hair, which is thick, has turned silver. 
But Jeffrey Epstein does not have a paunch. For a fifty-two-year-old 
6 
man, he's extremely fit. 
strong jawline. 
He's never been a di 
and he takes care good c 
It's a magnificent min 
lations, abstract formu1a5 
math problems that woul 
fall into place for him, 
manipulate—and multip 
mathematician. As a you 
Then he became an inve5 
philanthropist, like Bill G 
to give millions to acadei 
ing mysteries of the brain 
lions to Harvard. And h 
Eliot Spitzer, of New Yor 
Mexico, where Epstein ON 
Epstein's flown Bill 
the Gulfstream he owns 
own trading floor—so 1 
his various and worthy ( 
Just for fun, Chris 1 
Kevin Spacey had tagge( 
"Jeffrey is both a higl 
philanthropist with a 
in-depth knowledge of 
would say through a spc 
insights and generosity 
on democratization, em 
combating HIV/AIDS." 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 2 
ecise and unvarying. First he 
a silence, visualizing the day 
banana, and Mileslix that his 
way every day—at six in the 
.d of a mile up to South County 
ake deep, restorative breaths. 
ward the ocean. Jeffrey's home 
ehind him now. The morning's 
id glittery, and fishing trawlers 
ied sweatpants, monogrammed 
.asual attire offset by embroi-
s— the kind that sell for hun-
hich is thick, has turned silver. 
paunch. For a fifty-two-year-old 
man, he's extremely fit. Six feet tall, 180 pounds, brown eyes, a 
strong jawline. 
He's never been a drinker. He doesn't smoke or take drugs, 
and he takes care good care of his body as well as his mind. 
It's a magnificent mind. His gift is for numbers: complex calcu-
lations, abstract formulas. Even as a child, Jeffrey could untangle 
math problems that would stump most smart adults. Numbers just 
fall into place for him, forming in ranks he can bend, twist, 
manipulate—and multiply. He could have been a scientist or a 
mathematician. As a young man, he taught calculus and physics. 
Then he became an investor—a very rich man. Then he became a 
philanthropist, like Bill Gates. His love for science has inspired him 
to give millions to academics and institutions committed to study-
ing mysteries of the brain and the arcana of physics. He's given mil-
lions to Harvard. And he's given money to politicians: Governor 
Eliot Spitzer, of New York, and Governor Bill Richardson, of New 
Mexico, where Epstein owns the largest home in the state. 
Epstein's flown Bill Clinton to Africa on a private jet—not 
the Gulfstream he owns but his Boeing 727, customized with its 
own trading floor —so that the former president could promote 
his various and worthy causes. 
Just for fun, Chris Tucker, the comedian, and Clinton's pal 
Kevin Spacey had tagged along for the ride. 
"Jeffrey is both a highly successful financier and a committed 
philanthropist with a keen sense of global markets and an 
in-depth knowledge of twenty-first-century science," Clinton 
would say through a spokesperson. "I especially appreciated his 
insights and generosity during the recent trip to Africa to work 
on democratization, empowering the poor, citizen service, and 
combating HIV/AIDS." 
7 
JAMES PATTERSON 
But is Jeffrey thinking about that trip now? 
His first guest is due that morning at nine, and that leaves 
him enough time for a shower, a lunch, and a few phone calls 
before the second girl arrives. 
Sarah has scheduled that girl for one. 
For Jeffrey, it's just part of the daily routine. 
But on this day, there's a delicious twist. 
One of the girls is a first-timer. 
Mary: February 200.f 
D ownstairs, the dc 
gruffly: 
"Ella estd aqui 
"She's here. Your friel 
Mary runs down the 
got the TV on. Her steprr 
sister has gone out, too, I 
"Going shopping," sh 
Bubble into her mouth. 
"Ace quien?" 
"Says who?" 
Mary's already half' 
again, but on Sundays t. 
Besides, Mary knows hE 
she's made. Real mone) 
8 
3RSON 
it trip now? 
fling at nine, and that leaves 
lunch, and a few phone calls 
1r one. 
laily routine. 
us twist. 
CHAPTER 3 
Mary: February 2005 
ownstairs, the doorbell is ringing. Mary's father shouts, 
gruffly: 
"Ella estci aqui. Su amiga con el camiOn." 
"She's here. Your friend with the truck." 
Mary runs down the stairs. It's game day, and Dad's already 
got the TV on. Her stepmom's out running errands. Mary's twin 
sister has gone out, too, Rollerblading with a few of her friends. 
"Going *shopping," she yells, and she pops a piece of Dubble 
Bubble into her mouth. 
`2Dice quien?" 
"Says who?" 
Mary's already halfway out the door. Her father calls out 
again, but on Sundays there's no getting him out of his chair. 
Besides, Mary knows he'll be happy when he sees the money 
she's made. Real money, like Joe's cousin Wendy Dobbs, is 
9 
JAMES PATTERSON 
making.* And it's not like she's running off to do something 
crazy. After all, Wendy's assured her already that there's nothing 
to worry about. 
Mary's father is Cuban—an immigrant—a self-made man who 
runs a contracting business. He's wise to the ways of the world 
and highly protective of his two daughters. They're good girls, he 
knows. Almost angels. As far as he knows, they don't drink. 
They've never tried drugs. They love clothes and, especially, 
music —Britney Spears, Nelly Furtado, Maroon 5, the boy band 
with that dreamy lead singer. Mary loves California, which she's 
never seen but daydreams about. She just knows she'll live there 
someday—a plan that's okay with her father as long as Mary 
keeps up with her homework and chores. 
What he worries about, in the meantime, is the crowd that 
Mary runs with. 
Joe is a fine boy. More responsible than most American boys 
his age. But Joe's cousin, Wendy, is another story. Mary's father 
doesn't like Wendy at all and would have liked her even less had 
he known about Wendy's intentions. 
In just one hour, Wendy's told Mary, she can make more 
money than her father makes in a day: "This guy in Palm Beach. 
He's rich. Very rich. He has an airplane. He owns an island, you 
know?" 
Like a lot of kids who live inland, away from the Florida 
coast, Mary's dreams reach way beyond the dull, scrubby flat-
* Wendy Dobbs's name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been 
changed. 
10 
lands and strip malls s: 
that she wants to do an 
miles away, might as we 
"Yes," she had said, v 
Then there was Joe ti 
"Who is this guy?" J( 
know a thing about him 
"Hundreds of dollar: 
quite look at Joe, but she 
Joe seemed to think 
conversation—some bac 
hadn't even crossed Mar 
would become a regular 
"To rub his feet? Are 
it, why haven't you told y 
"It's your cousin, Joe! 
"The guy's feet must I 
"Shut up!" 
"Tell your father." 
"You know how E 
everything." 
"I'm not going to som 
"That's right. I am." 
"And if! told your fat] 
"You'd never see me al 
Mary felt bad as she 
She knew that it wouli 
Wendy had told her 
RSON 
FILTHY RICH 
unning off to do something 
!.r already that there's nothing 
grant—a self-made man who 
wise to the ways of the world 
ughters. They're good girls, he 
he knows, they don't drink. 
love clothes and, especially, 
-tad°, Maroon 5, the boy band 
y loves California, which she's 
She just knows she'll live there 
th her father as long as Mary 
chores. 
e meantime, is the crowd that 
sible than most American boys 
is another story. Mary's father 
Lid have liked her even less had 
)ns. 
Did Mary, she can make more 
I day: "This guy in Palm Beach. 
.rplane. He owns an island, you 
inland, away from the Florida 
beyond the dull, scrubby flat-
ying details, and dialogue have been 
0 
lands and strip malls she's grown up around. There's so much 
that she wants to do and see. But for her the Gold Coast, twenty 
miles away, might as well be another country. 
"Yes," she had said, without even thinking about it. 
Then there was Joe to contend with. 
"Who is this guy?" Joe had said, shaking his head. "You don't 
know a thing about him." 
"Hundreds of dollars," Mary had whispered. She couldn't 
quite look at Joe, but she was firm: "I can make that in one hour" 
Joe seemed to think they were actually talking about it. A 
conversation—some back-and-forth. But the thought of not going 
hadn't even crossed Mary's mind. If anything, she hoped that it 
would become a regular thing. 
"To rub his feet? Are you kidding? If you're not worried about 
it, why haven't you told your dad?" 
"It's your cousin, Joe! Some girls go three times a week." 
"The guy's feet must be killing him." 
"Shut up!" 
"Tell your father." 
"You know how Dad is. You don't tell your parents 
everything." 
"I'm not going to some freak's mansion to rub his feet." 
"That's right. I am." 
"And if I told your father? Or mine?" 
"You'd never see me again." 
Mary felt bad as she said it. She felt bad for lying. 
She knew that it would be more than a foot rub. 
Wendy had told her that much, at least. 
11 
CHAPTER 4 
Jeffrey Epstein: February 2005 
John Kluge, the media magnate, has bought up several lots 
around here, torn down the mansions, and built a grand, 
sprawling estate. But Epstein's neighbors have blocked his 
own efforts to buy more land and increase his holdings. 
Epstein's address in Palm Beach is 358 El Brillo Way. Built in 
the fifties by a totally run-of-the-mill architect, the house has 
none of the elegance of his neighbors' homes. It's big, with a big 
swimming pool—that's the most you can say for it. It's totally 
bland. But it's the last house on a dead-end block, the last block 
of the street, and this makes it very secluded. 
Tonight, one of Epstein's black Escalades will whisk him 
away, taking him to the private terminal at Palm Beach Interna-
tional Airport. Then a short flight down to Little Saint James — 
or, as he likes to call it, Little Saint Jeff's—the seventy-eight-acre 
island he owns in the Virgin Islands. But for the moment, there 
12 
are still things to attend I 
although, in Epstein's exp( 
nicely. 
He strolls through th 
door that leads to the kitc 
dishes and climbs a wide, 
He walks down a hallway 
naked women. Then, in h 
there are many more phoi 
wall, of girls who have cor 
Familiar faces, famil 
first-timers so special. 
Epstein checks his wat 
The Virgin Islands can 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 4 
05 
ite, has bought up several lots 
mansions, and built a grand, 
neighbors have blocked his 
I increase his holdings. 
tch is 358 El Brillo Way. Built in 
.e-mill architect, the house has 
ibors' homes. It's big, with a big 
St you can say for it. It's totally 
a dead-end block, the last block 
ry secluded. 
lack Escalades will whisk him 
terminal at Palm Beach Interna-
;ht down to Little Saint James — 
[nt Jeff's— the seventy-eight-acre 
Lands. But for the moment, there 
are still things to attend to in Florida. Business and pleasure — 
although, in Epstein's experience, the two have always fit together 
nicely. 
He strolls through the gate, past the guard, up to the side 
door that leads to the kitchen. Inside, he ignores the maid doing 
dishes and climbs a wide, winding staircase to the second floor. 
He walks down a hallway, one that's lined with photographs of 
naked women. Then, in his bedroom, he opens a closet. Inside, 
there are many more photographs. Erotic photos, tacked to the 
wall, of girls who have come to the house. 
Familiar faces, familiar bodies. That's what makes the 
first-timers so special. 
Epstein checks his watch before closing the door. 
The Virgin Islands can wait. 
13 
CHAPTER 5 
Mary: February 2005 
The Dubble Bubble's lost all its flavor, but Mary's still chew-
ing the gum as she shifts, nervously, in the backseat of 
Wendy's big pickup truck. The girl sitting up front next 
to Wendy is a stranger to Mary. She's chain-smoking menthols. 
The music is blaring; the seat is filthy and gross. Worried that 
her white jeans will get grody, Mary sits on her hands. Then, 
through the window, she sees a gigantic resort called the Break-
ers. It is resplendent, sun-drenched, not quite real—like some-
thing you'd see in the movies. 
It makes for an interesting contrast. 
"We'll wait for her," Wendy says to the girl in the passenger 
seat. "Then we can all go to the mall." 
"Which one?" 
"The Gardens." 
It's like she's not there. Mary wants to say something about it, 
14 
but she doesn't know if th( 
dy's always seemed so mi 
other girl's just a mystery. 
speak to Mary, her stare SE 
girl. 
"Remember," Wendy s 
davit filed by the Palm Bee 
are, say eighteen." 
The light changes, anc 
looking at Mary in the rea 
"Got it?" 
Mary nods. 
"I mean it," says Wend 
Who would believe het 
than that. 
"Okay," she says. "I got 
Mary takes out her flu 
cousin is a BAMF." 
A badass motherfuckei 
There's no reply. 
"Or maybe she's just a 1 
Still no reply. 
Joe must still be in churc 
They pass El Bravo Wa: 
Wendy's driving slowl: 
more, she says: "When the 
Mary nods again and 
see her smiling. To know 
Wendy's eyes are on the fn 
they walk past a guard. 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 5 
its flavor, but Mary's still chew-
nervously, in the backseat of 
:. The girl sitting up front next 
She's chain-smoking menthols. 
filthy and gross. Worried that 
Mary sits on her hands. Then, 
gigantic resort called the Break-
hed, not quite real—like some-
mtrast. 
says to the girl in the passenger 
:nall." 
wants to say something about it, 
14 
but she doesn't know if the other girls would even respond. Wen-
dy's always seemed so much cooler than kids Mary's age. This 
other girl's just a mystery. And when Wendy does turn around to 
speak to Mary, her stare seems to slice right through the younger 
girl. 
"Remember," Wendy says, according to a probable cause affi-
davit filed by the Palm Beach police. "When he asks how old you 
are, say eighteen." 
The light changes, and Wendy turns back around but keeps 
looking at Mary in the rearview mirror. 
"Got it?" 
Mary nods. 
"I mean it," says Wendy. 
Who would believe her? Anyone can see that Mary is younger 
than that. 
"Okay," she says. "I got it. Eighteen." 
Mary takes out her flip phone and sends Joe a text: "Your 
cousin is a BAMF." 
A badass motherfucker. 
There's no reply. 
"Or maybe she's just a bitch," Mary texts. 
Still no reply. 
Joe must still be in church, Mary thinks. 
They pass El Bravo Way and turn onto El Brillo Way. 
Wendy's driving slowly now, right at the speed limit. Once 
more, she says: "When the man asks your age, say eighteen." 
Mary nods again and smiles, slightly. She wants Wendy to 
see her smiling. To know that she's got it all under control. But 
Wendy's eyes are on the front gate now. It opens, she parks, and 
they walk past a guard. 
15 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"We're here to see Jeff," says Wendy. 
The guard nods—of course you are—and leads them to the 
side door. 
They're in the kitchen now. Mary, Wendy, some middle-aged 
man. The man has a long face, bushy eyebrows, and thick silver 
hair—and he's fit. As fit as the jocks that Mary goes to school 
with. Not attractive, exactly. He's way too old for that. But confi-
dent, in a way that makes an impression. 
Standing behind the man there's a woman. She's blond, very 
pretty, much taller than Wendy. 
What a strange scene, Mary thinks. She can't shake the feeling 
that the man is studying her. Then he nods, and he and Wendy 
walk out of the kitchen. A little while later, they're back. 
"Sarah," the man says to the tall woman. "You can take Mary 
upstairs." 
Sarah takes Mary up a wide winding staircase carpeted in pink. 
Together they walk down a hall that's got photographs on the 
wall—naked women. Long curtains cover windows and don't 
let in much light. In the air, there's a strong lavender fragrance. 
Then they come to a room containing a green-and-pink sofa. 
There's a large bathroom off to one side and doors on either side 
of the sofa. There's a wooden armoire with sex toys on it. There's 
a massage table, too, and a mural of a naked woman. 
"Wait here," says Sarah. "Jeff will be up in a moment." 
Mary's too freaked out to do anything else. Fidgeting with 
her belt loops, she sits on the sofa, jumps up again. 
16 
Then she sees the pictu 
All the girls in the pho, 
just a baby. 
Much younger than Ivli 
The girl's smiling, bu 
else—some sort of anxiet 
face. And what she's doinl 
off to the side. Flashing or 
toward the camera. 
Mary gasps. She turns 
in front of her, wearing nol 
:RSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ndy. 
are—and leads them to the 
7, Wendy, some middle-aged 
hy eyebrows, and thick silver 
cks that Mary goes to school 
vay too old for that. But confi-
ssion. 
a woman. She's blond, very 
iks. She can't shake the feeling 
a he nods, and he and Wendy 
-ale later, they're back. 
.11 woman. "You can take Mary 
ling staircase carpeted in pink. 
that's got photographs on the 
ains cover windows and don't 
's a strong lavender fragrance. 
tataining a green-and-pink sofa. 
ae side and doors on either side 
Loire with sex toys on it. There's 
of a naked woman. 
will be up in a moment." 
) anything else. Fidgeting with 
a, jumps up again. 
6 
Then she sees the picture. 
All the girls in the photos are young. But the girl in this one's 
just a baby. 
Much younger than Mary herself. 
The girl's smiling, but the smile's mixed with something 
else—some sort of anxiety that's out of place on such a small 
face. And what she's doing is shocking: pulling her underwear 
off to the side. Flashing one of her tiny apple-round butt cheeks 
toward the camera. 
Mary gasps. She turns around. And there's Epstein standing 
in front of her, wearing nothing but a towel. 
17 
CHAPTER 6 
Michael Reiter: March 2005 
Chief Reiter looks more like a bank president than a cop. 
He's well built, with an air of formality and discretion. But 
he's got twenty-four years on the job. Decades earlier, he 
was a campus police officer in Pittsburgh. Then he rose, steadily, 
through the ranks in Palm Beach, moving up from patrol officer 
to detective, working vice, narcotics, and organized crime, then 
becoming a sergeant, captain, major, and assistant chief—a job 
he held for three years—before becoming chief of police. Reiter 
is what you'd call seasoned, although chief of police in Palm 
Beach is a job that calls upon his political skills as much as his 
street smarts. 
Then again, from time to time, things do happen. 
Once in a blue moon there are murders— though these are 
so rare that they tend to be remembered for decades. 
Sometimes there are hurricanes to contend with, and, when the 
18 
sea calms, human cargo 
fickers aim the bows of th( 
order their passengers to 
Most of the passengers 
who stake all they have cm 
to time, Palm Beach cops I 
Things get busier dur 
it, the season. It's when i 
ties and balls, shop, and 
Worth Avenue. The popt: 
who work under Chief R 
ers, and snotty skateboar 
tic disturbances. Chokin 
stuff, but there's always 
women who work for Rei 
Chief Reiter's proud ( 
knows, they're lucky to 
for the job. If anything, h 
the John F. Kennedy Sch( 
terrorist training at Quan 
up often at cocktail partil 
hijackers lived in Palm B( 
local airstrips. A few, inci 
had been regulars at 251 
There they had regaled 
made-up stories about the 
But 251 Sunrise is sht 
2004, after an avalanche oi 
Beach is as quiet and calm 
For the moment. 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 6 
a bank president than a cop. 
Df formality and discretion. But 
on the job. Decades earlier, he 
tsburgh. Then he rose, steadily, 
, moving up from patrol officer 
tics, and organized crime, then 
Or, and assistant chief—a job 
)ecoming chief of police. Reiter 
hough chief of police in Palm 
s political skills as much as his 
e, things do happen. 
tre murders — though these are 
mbered for decades. 
to contend with, and, when the 
8 
sea calms, human cargo washes up on the shore. Sometimes traf-
fickers aim the bows of their boats at the glow of the Breakers resort, 
order their passengers to go overboard, then tell them to swim. 
Most of the passengers are Haitian—men, women, and children 
who stake all they have on a chance at a life in America. From time 
to time, Palm Beach cops have to retrieve their bodies from the surf. 
Things get busier during the wintertime, or, as the locals call 
it, the season. It's when the very rich come to town, throw par-
ties and balls, shop, and tangle traffic at the intersections around 
Worth Avenue. The population booms, and the men and women 
who work under Chief Reiter deal with fender benders, shoplift-
ers, and snotty skateboarding teenagers. There are DUIs. Domes-
tic disturbances. Choking victims and heart attacks. It's routine 
stuff, but there's always lots of it. Enough to keep the men and 
women who work for Reiter busy. 
Chief Reiter's proud of the team he has built. And, the team 
knows, they're lucky to have him. Reiter's extremely well qualified 
for the job. If anything, he's overqualified, with a certificate from 
the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and anti-
terrorist training at Quantico, courtesy of the FBI. It's not brought 
up often at cocktail parties in Palm Beach, but several of the 9/11 
hijackers lived in Palm Beach County. They took flight lessons at 
local airstrips. A few, including the mastermind, Mohamed Atta, 
had been regulars at 251 Sunrise, a chic nightclub in Palm Beach. 
There they had regaled any woman who would listen with 
made-up stories about their adventures as pilots. 
But 251 Sunrise is shuttered now. The joint was shut down in 
2004, after an avalanche of noise complaints. For the moment, Palm 
Beach is as quiet and calm as any place Reiter has dreamed about. 
For the moment. 
19 
CHAPTER 7 
Mary: March 2005 
J
f there's no traffic, Mary's hometown is less than thirty min-
utes away from the island of Palm Beach. But in economic 
terms it's a world away. Her high school is run by the county. 
Most of Mary's classmates are black. Thirty percent are Hispanic, 
as she is. The rest are white. The school has a C rating, and lots 
of students receive free or discounted lunches. Mary is one of 
those students. But inch by inch, she's working her way out of 
the crab barrel. A good kid, her teachers think. A kid with a 
future in front of her. 
Weeks have gone by since her meeting with Epstein. She 
hasn't told anyone about the visit. Still, other kids at the high 
school have noticed a change. 
"Yo, Mary," a friend says. "What's up with you anyway?" 
This is a kid who veers from nice to mean, depending on 
who else is around. 
Still, a friend. 
"Nothing," says Mary. 
"You got your period? 
"Shut the fuck up," M; 
There have been rui 
Rumors started by a girl v 
"Whore," her rival shc 
"You're the whore," M; 
Mary rushes the girl, vv 
twisting and tugging. Son 
bell rings for next period, It 
She shakes her head i 
feeling humiliated. 
Then, in her wallet, th, 
Mary's too young and too 
are all twenties, not single 
ents, her teachers sugges 
Mary do drugs or deal thei 
Mary's father knows b( 
chologist is called in. And 
Once she does, she can 
It's a wild story. Highly 
A powerful man. This is al 
It's definitely a matter for th 
recommending a transfer, 
troubled kids— ones with 
Mary's a good girl, it's t 
high school will not be tole 
FILTHY RICH 
Still, a friend. 
"Nothing," says Mary. 
"You got your period?" 
"Shut the fuck up," Mary whispers. 
CHAPTER 7 
n.etown is less than thirty min-
Palm Beach. But in economic 
igh school is run by the county. 
ck. Thirty percent are Hispanic, 
school has a C rating, and lots 
,unted lunches. Mary is one of 
1, she's working her way out of 
r teachers think. A kid with a 
her meeting with Epstein. She 
sit. Still, other kids at the high 
rhat's up with you anyway?" 
m nice to mean, depending on 
!O 
There have been rumors going around, she knows that. 
Rumors started by a girl who has eyes for Joe. 
"Whore," her rival shouts in the hallway one day. 
"You're the whore," Mary shouts back. 
Mary rushes the girl, who shoves back, grabbing at Mary's hair, 
twisting and tugging. Someone yells, "Catfight!" By the time the 
bell rings for next period, Mary's sitting in the principal's office. 
She shakes her head in reply to the questions, stays silent, 
feeling humiliated. 
Then, in her wallet, they find the three hundred dollars. 
Mary's too young and too small to be stripping. Besides, the bills 
are all twenties, not singles or fives. When they call Mary's par-
ents, her teachers suggest a more obvious explanation: Does 
Mary do drugs or deal them? 
Mary's father knows better than that. "No," he insists. A psy-
chologist is called in. And then, Mary does start talking. 
Once she does, she can't stop. 
It's a wild story. Highly disturbing. A mansion in Palm Beach. 
A powerful man. This is all far from the principal's wheelhouse. 
It's definitely a matter for the police. In the meantime, the school's 
recommending a transfer, purely temporarily, to a facility for 
troubled kids—ones with "issues." 
Mary's a good girl, it's true. But further confrontations at the 
high school will not be tolerated. 
21 
CHAPTER 8 
Michele Pagan: March 2005 
0n March 15, Palm Beach police officer Michele Pagan 
takes the first call from Mary's stepmother. 
"Ma'am," she says, "I'm going to have to ask you to 
come down to the station." 
"I don't want to say anything more until I speak with my 
husband." 
"Ma'am, I appreciate that. But I'd urge you to come in. Let us 
find out what happened. Please." 
"I'll get back to you." 
"Please, ma'am. I'm here for the rest of the day. We're on 
South County Road." 
At the station, Mary's father does most of the talking. 
"There was an incident," he says. "At school. A fight between 
Mary and another girl. But please understand, our Mary's not 
like that." 
22 
Officer Pagan's startin 
uncharted waters. She's yc 
this have been minor. Ro 
used to the Gold Coast. SI 
to her, the less affluent toi 
well be somewhere in Gec 
know that in the back 
whispering. 
What's a guy with that 
out west? The women arour 
Extortion? 
The kid's fourteen. Whu 
Have you seen the sho-
things we've never dreamed 
No, Pagan thinks. This 
She's the one who's goi 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 8 
a police officer Michele Pagan 
lary's stepmother. 
'm going to have to ask you to 
ig more until I speak with my 
Lt I'd urge you to come in. Let us 
T the rest of the day. We're on 
does most of the talking. 
says. "At school. A fight between 
tase understand, our Mary's not 
22 
Officer Pagan's starting to feel as though she's swimming in 
uncharted waters. She's young, and the cases she's worked before 
this have been minor. Robberies, that sort of thing. Pagan's not 
used to the Gold Coast. She was educated in New York City, and, 
to her, the less affluent towns further in from the Coast might as 
well be somewhere in Georgia. Then again, she knows enough to 
know that in the back of the station, detectives are already 
whispering. 
What's a guy with that kind of money need with some girl from 
out west? The women around here could make a man cry. 
Extortion? 
The kid's fourteen. What would she know from extortion? 
Have you seen the shows these kids watch? They know about 
things we've never dreamed about. 
No, Pagan thinks. This is her case. 
She's the one who's going to work it. 
23 
CHAPTER 9 
Mary: March 2005 
ary's father and stepmother believe their girl. Officer 
Pagan believes Mary's parents. Ergo, Mary must be tell-
ing the truth. The girl's got a sweet, high, halting voice. 
Pagan interviews her twice, and both times, she speaks with her 
chin buried deep in her chest. 
"Tell me, honey," says Pagan. "What happened?" 
In her notepad, Michele Pagan writes: While speaking to me, 
Mary became upset and started to cry. 
"This white-haired guy came into the room," Mary says. 
"Wearing only a towel around his waist. He took off the towel. 
And then he was all naked, and he lay down on a massage table. 
"He was a really built guy. But his wee-wee was very tiny." 
Mary tells Pagan that Epstein spoke only to give her instruc-
tions, which he did in a stern voice. She tells Pagan that she was 
alone and didn't know what to do. 
24 
She removed her par 
writes in her incident rei 
She straddled his ba 
touching Epstein's expose( 
Epstein then turned tc 
up-and-down motion. Eps 
to massage Mary's vagina 
Mary's sure that Epst 
himself down as he got c 
That week, Pagan's as. 
tives. Five men, two won 
say. "This is different fro 
tor is a smart person, arm 
Within days, another 
a similar story. 
It's a tricky case, accordil 
investigation, because thi 
as bait in an attempt to cat 
even if they were willin 
strings that Chief Reiter's 
Two weeks later, on is, 
a controlled call to Wend. 
The first attempt goes 
The next time Mary c 
On the recordings m 
tiny and tentative, whil( 
grown, like the femme fat 
"Hey, what's up?" she 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 9 
,ther believe their girl. Officer 
arents. Ergo, Mary must be tell-
got a sweet, high, halting voice. 
Doth times, she speaks with her 
"What happened?" 
in writes: While speaking to me, 
cry. 
ne into the room," Mary says. 
As waist. He took off the towel. 
he lay down on a massage table. 
at his wee-wee was very tiny." 
n spoke only to give her instruc-
>ice. She tells Pagan that she was 
10. 
24 
She removed her pants, leaving her thong panties on, Pagan 
writes in her incident report. 
She straddled his back, whereby her exposed buttocks were 
touching Epstein's exposed buttocks. 
Epstein then turned to his side and started to rub his penis in an 
up-and-down motion. Epstein pulled out a purple vibrator and began 
to massage Mary's vaginal area. 
Mary's sure that Epstein ejaculated. "He used a towel to wipe 
himself down as he got off the table," she says. 
That week, Pagan's assigned to the case, along with six detec-
tives. Five men, two women. "A predator case," one of them will 
say. "This is different from someone who is stealing. This preda-
tor is a smart person, and that's his desire. He can't stop." 
Within days, another victim comes into the station. She's got 
a similar story. 
It's a tricky case, according to a source closely involved with the 
investigation, because the girls involved are far too young to use 
as bait in an attempt to catch Epstein committing another crime — 
even if they were willing to play along. Still, there are other 
strings that Chief Reiter's team can start pulling. 
Two weeks later, on March 31, Officer Pagan has Mary make 
a controlled call to Wendy Dobbs. 
The first attempt goes straight to voice mail. 
The next time Mary calls, Wendy picks up. 
On the recordings made by Officer Pagan, Mary's voice is 
tiny and tentative, while Wendy sounds mature, gruff, fully 
grown, like the femme fatale in some old black-and-white movie. 
"Hey, what's up?" she says impatiently. 
25 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"Nothing," says Mary. 
"I talked to Jeffrey, and I'm going to his house tomorrow 
morning," says Wendy. "I'm going to set something up for you." 
"Cool. Like, what do you think?" 
"I don't know. I'm going to talk to him tomorrow morning 
when I go to his house about it." 
"Urn, how much would I get paid?" 
"Talk to him. I'll talk to him tomorrow, and then I'll bring 
you in the next day. You can talk to him about it." 
So far, so good, thinks Officer Pagan. But she needs more. She 
looks at Mary expectantly, but not too expectantly, she hopes. She 
can imagine how hard it must be for the girl. Or maybe she can't 
imagine it at all. But either way, Mary seems to have gotten the 
message. Straightening up in her chair, she begins to press Wendy. 
"I don't know," Wendy says in response. "I don't know. You're 
going to have to talk to him about it. I mean, I don't really work for 
him like that. I just bring girls to him and they work for him.. .. You 
can ask him, like, 'What can I do to make more money?" 
Mary keeps pressing. 
"The more you do, the more you get paid," Wendy says finally. 
"Want me to bring my sister for you? So that we can get paid 
more or something?" 
"Well, yeah. That's what I'm saying. I'm working tomorrow, 
and me and him are going to put a schedule together for you and 
your sister. So I'll call you tomorrow when I leave Jeffrey with a 
schedule." 
"Okay, well, I don't have a phone. So if you guys call me, I'd 
have to know what time so I could get the phone." 
"Okay. I'll leave you a message. That's fine. I'll leave you a 
message." 
26 
Noel St. Pierre: Mar 
Noel St. Pierre* 
Haiti. His old 1 
jungle border 
Republic, and some of I 
kids would stay in the E 
of them never returned. 
say too much about it. 
Most of them didn't 
By the time he wa5 
those kids. He'd leanr 
prostitutes. 
This was how Noel 
really were devils out ii 
* Noel St. Pierre is a compo: 
RSON 
ding to his house tomorrow 
o set something up for you." 
))7 
k to him tomorrow morning 
id?" 
:.omorrow, and then I'll bring 
d him about it." 
agan. But she needs more. She 
Do expectantly, she hopes. She 
or the girl. Or maybe she can't 
4ary seems to have gotten the 
lair, she begins to press Wendy. 
response. "I don't know. You're 
•t. I mean, I don't really work for 
in and they work for him.. . . You 
D make more money?" 
yu get paid," Wendy says finally. 
Or you? So that we can get paid 
saying. I'm working tomorrow, 
a schedule together for you and 
row when I leave Jeffrey with a 
lone. So if you guys call me, I'd 
id get the phone." 
age. That's fine. I'll leave you a 
6 
CHAPTER JO 
Noel St. Pierre: March 2005 
Noel St. Pierre* thinks of the kids he grew up with in 
Haiti. His old neighborhood was pressed up against the 
jungle border that Haiti shares with the Dominican 
Republic, and some of the kids he knew would slip over. Those 
kids would stay in the DR for a few days, sometimes weeks. Some 
of them never returned. But the ones who did come back wouldn't 
say too much about it. 
Most of them didn't talk much at all. 
By the time he was ten, Noel had learned the truth about 
those kids. He'd learned that they'd ended up working as 
prostitutes. 
This was how Noel St. Pierre had learned about evil. There 
really were devils out in the world. Flesh-and-blood devils, and 
* Noel St. Pierre is a composite character. 
27 
JAMES PATTERSON 
they were nothing like the demons he'd heard about in church. 
Noel had never forgotten the way those kids looked. The way 
they'd turned into old men and old women. They were like zom-
bies trapped in children's bodies. And now, in America, Noel's 
been given a chance to help other kids. 
That's what the police have told him, at least. 
Noel is a sanitation worker. Still strong at fifty, and lucky 
enough to have found his way to Palm Beach, he gets in to work 
before anyone else and keeps his white compactor truck clean, 
almost glistening. His pickup route runs hot and cold with the 
seasons. But even in the summer, with much less to do, he's on 
the job early, braced for a six-hour shift that would break a lesser 
man's back. In the winter, the job gets even harder. The Estate 
Section gets especially busy. Some of the parties have hundreds 
of guests. They leave behind mountains of refuse. That garbage 
gets picked up daily, or twice a day when requested. It's carried 
by workers who slip, silently, under the porte cocheres. Then it 
gets whisked twenty miles away to a landfill that the garbage-
men call Mount Trashmore. 
Noel's stretch of the Estate Section runs from the Everglades 
Club to the southernmost tip of the island. It encompasses Ban-
yan Road, Jungle Road, El Bravo Way, and El Brill° Way. His per-
formance record is spotless. As far as the Palm Beach PD is 
concerned, he's the perfect man for the job. 
Chief Reiter's authorized a "trash pull" —a legal way to collect 
discarded evidence. In this case, evidence culled from Jeffrey 
Epstein's garbage. But when the police call him, Noel St. Pierre 
simply assumes that another refugee boat has run aground on 
28 
the beach. A sad thing 
time to time. His home 
despots who line their 
Many of the refugee: 
Most of them speak 
"Eske ou ka ede nou, 
"Can you help us, pl 
The cops always ne€ 
help out before. But thi: 
impatient. 
"This time is differ, 
special. You don't have 
keep things to yourself, 
When he hears what 
"I'll do it," he says if
address he's been 
morning, St. Pierre mov( 
kitchen window at the 
women, one of them qui 
The fourth silhouett€ 
The police have giv( 
unsavory, but so is the 
detectives want from hi 
numbers, along with toc 
wear. Anything that cou 
special truck on the El E 
aside in small trash bags 
end of every shift. 
RSON 
FILTHY RICH 
1 
he'd heard about in church. 
those kids looked. The way 
women. They were like zom-
knd now, in America, Noel's 
ids. 
him, at least. 
:ill strong at fifty, and lucky 
aim Beach, he gets in to work 
khite compactor truck clean, 
.e runs hot and cold with the 
with much less to do, he's on 
shift that would break a lesser 
gets even harder. The Estate 
: of the parties have hundreds 
ntains of refuse. That garbage 
ty when requested. It's carried 
ier the porte cocheres. Then it 
to a landfill that the garbage-
:don runs from the Everglades 
he island. It encompasses Ban-
Vay, and El Brillo Way. His per-
far as the Palm Beach PD is 
N the job. 
h pull" — a legal way to collect 
evidence culled from Jeffrey 
police call him, Noel St. Pierre 
fugee boat has run aground on 
8 
the beach. A sad thing, but something that does happen from 
time to time. His homeland, Haiti, is desperately poor. Run by 
despots who line their pockets while everyday people suffer. 
Many of the refugees are illiterate. 
Most of them speak only Creole. 
"Eske ou ha ede nou, souple," they ask. 
"Can you help us, please?" 
The cops always need a translator, and Noel's been asked to 
help out before. But this time the police officer's voice is raspy, 
impatient. 
"This time is different," the officer says. "Something very 
special. You don't have to accept. But if you do, you'll have to 
keep things to yourself, completely." 
When he hears what the story is, Noel accepts. 
"I'll do it," he says immediately. 
The address he's been given is 358 El Brillo Way. On his first 
morning, St. Pierre moves swiftly, sneaking a glance through the 
kitchen window at the four silhouettes standing inside. Three 
women, one of them quite short, with pigtails. 
The fourth silhouette is that of a tall man. 
The police have given him clear instructions. The work is 
unsavory, but so is the work Noel does every day. What the 
detectives want from him now are slips of paper with phone 
numbers, along with toothbrushes, condoms, discarded under-
wear. Anything that could provide DNA. He's been told to use a 
special truck on the El Brillo run. Whatever he finds he's to put 
aside in small trash bags he'll deliver directly to the station at the 
end of every shift. 
29 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Jeffrey Epstein's garbage will never arrive at Mount Trashmore. 
As he drives to the police station, St. Pierre thinks about 
Epstein and what he's been told. It's a wonder to him that Ameri-
can kids would do what the police say these kids have done. 
American kids are rich, after all. Some of them just don't know it, 
he guesses. 
Americans always want more than they have. 
Then again, children do stupid things. They don't know any 
better. And St. Pierre's trips to the house make one thing clear. 
These girls are young. Really young. 
"I hope you can stop this man," St. Pierre tells the cop. 
The detective shoots him a sharp look, and St. Pierre nods. 
"Please," he says, more softly this time. 
"Can we count on seeing you here tomorrow?" 
The detective looks antsy, impatient again. In his hand he's 
holding a scrap of paper that Noel St. Pierre has pulled from 
Epstein's trash. Wendy Dobbs's name is on it. Mary's name is on 
it as well. 
The detective can't wait to get it to Chief Reiter's office. 
"As long as it takes, sir," St. Pierre tells him. "Tomorrow, the 
next day. Whenever you need me." 
30 
Michael Reiter: Sep, 
There's a sense ir 
foundation. Fre 
residents will w 
How much more wot 
remarkably safe commi 
A tax write-off? Su. 
genuine gesture. One e 
the department's effort 
ciously, gratefully. In 2 
Jeffrey Epstein— the ! 
Beach PD — for ninety 
generous standards of 
delivered personally, NN 
ulator. But that day Mic 
off about Epstein. 
;.RSON 
er arrive at Mount Trashmore. 
Lion, St. Pierre thinks about 
; a wonder to him that Amer--
:e say these kids have done. 
ome of them just don't know it, 
han they have. 
. things. They don't know any 
house make one thing clear. 
g. 
St. Pierre tells the cop. 
rp look, and St. Pierre nods. 
his time. 
iere tomorrow?" 
patient again. In his hand he's 
)el St. Pierre has pulled from 
ime is on it. Mary's name is on 
it to Chief Reiter's office. 
[erre tells him. "Tomorrow, the 
77 
0 
CHAPTER II 
Michael Reiter: September 2005 
There's a sense in which the Palm Beach PD functions as a 
foundation. From time to time, one of the town's wealthy 
residents will walk in with a check followed by an inquiry. 
How much more would the police force need to make this 
remarkably safe community feel even safer? 
A tax write-off? Sure. But why not? Coming from most, it's a 
genuine gesture. One of appreciation for all they have and for all 
the department's efforts to guard it. Donations are accepted gra-
ciously, gratefully. In 2004, the department had taken one from 
Jeffrey Epstein—the second donation he'd made to the Palm 
Beach PD—for ninety thousand dollars. Generous, even by the 
generous standards of Palm Beach. The donation, which Epstein 
delivered personally, was earmarked for a firearms training sim-
ulator. But that day Michael Reiter had thought something seemed 
off about Epstein. 
31 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Something an old cop would notice. 
Reiter's officers had told him about complaints they'd gotten 
a few months earlier—young women hanging around at the end 
of the block or coming and going at all hours from Epstein's 
house. "There was some follow-up to that," Reiter said in a depo-
sition for B.B. vs. Epstein, a civil suit, brought by a victim, that 
Jeffrey eventually settled. "I think we may have encountered one 
or two of them. [We] may have done a little bit of surveillance or 
talked to neighbors as to whether or not they had seen that. I 
think we were of the general understanding that, yes, there were 
very attractive young women coming and going from Mr. 
Epstein's residence. 
"We did some level of further inquiry, and we were of the 
belief that they were all adults. And [we] were also of the belief 
that there was a possibility that there could be prostitution. But I 
mean that's just not something that we heavily pursued—
prostitution in private residences; it's common everywhere in 
America. We didn't believe that they were underage at that point, 
and so we had no further interest in it." 
Reiter had recalled those complaints on the day Epstein had 
shown up with his $90,000 donation. And when Reiter had 
walked Epstein downstairs, he couldn't help but notice the tall, 
beautiful woman whom Epstein had brought with him to the 
station. 
It struck him as strange that she was standing so stiffly, eyes 
cast downward, as though she were afraid to speak. Not a kid. 
But not a woman, either. Epstein did not introduce or even 
acknowledge her. To Reiter, this, too, seemed odd. 
Indeed, the statuesque woman was Nadia Marcinkova, a 
32 
nineteen-year-old be 
described, by anothe 
tive Recarey, as one o 
In September, seven 
calls Reiter directly 
arms simulator yet? 
Cautiously, Reiter 
If the departmen 
happy to provide the) 
Reiter thanks hir 
now that Epstein kric 
Epstein's crimes in P 
knows, if the charge 
public. 
Cops like Reiter 
that they're no longe) 
helps to hold on to a 
to understand: you s, 
murders make a kin( 
tion. There's great so 
Epstein's been up to 
Who is this guy? 
Reiter's detective. 
him, they'll have to 1 
to know the people ; 
Wendy. That's one pl 
What kind of per. 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
)tice. 
pout complaints they'd gotten 
Len hanging around at the end 
g at all hours from Epstein's 
to that," Reiter said in a depo-
lift, brought by a victim, that 
we may have encountered one 
ne a little bit of surveillance or 
r or not they had seen that. I 
Tstanding that, yes, there were 
:oming and going from Mr. 
:r inquiry, and we were of the 
Lnd [we] were also of the belief 
-iere could be prostitution. But I 
g that we heavily pursued—
.',s; it's common everywhere in 
hey were underage at that point, 
t in it." 
aplaints on the day Epstein had 
Dnation. And when Reiter had 
:ouldn't help but notice the tall, 
a had brought with him to the 
she was standing so stiffly, eyes 
were afraid to speak. Not a kid. 
tein did not introduce or even 
>, too, seemed odd. 
,man was Nadia Marcinkova, a 
32 
nineteen-year-old beauty who lived at Epstein's home and was 
described, by another girl, in a recorded interview with Detec-
tive Recarey, as one of Epstein's "like, slaves." 
In September, several months into the investigation, Epstein 
calls Reiter directly and asks: Has Palm Beach bought the fire-
arms simulator yet? 
Cautiously, Reiter tells him that they're still doing research. 
If the department needs more funds, Epstein says, he'll be 
happy to provide them. 
Reiter thanks him graciously and hangs up. But he's certain 
now that Epstein knows about the investigation. Thinking about 
Epstein's crimes in Palm Beach makes him shudder. And, Reiter 
knows, if the charges are true, things are going to get ugly and 
public. 
Cops like Reiter are family men, fathers. Some see so much 
that they're no longer surprised by the ways of the world. Still, it 
helps to hold on to a natural capacity for outrage. Thefts are easy 
to understand: you see something you need, so you take it. Even 
murders make a kind of sense once you understand the motiva-
tion. There's great satisfaction in catching a murderer. But what 
Epstein's been up to is hard to explain. 
Who is this guy? 
Reiter's detectives will have to get into Epstein's head. To nail 
him, they'll have to know him. And to do that, they'll have to get 
to know the people around him. The police already know about 
Wendy. That's one procurer, but out of how many? 
What kind of person would bring children to a child molester? 
33 
JAMES PATTERSON 
And—Reiter can't shake the idea—other victims had to be 
out there. That lined up with what Epstein's neighbor reported: 
there were many girls. He needed to find them as quickly as pos-
sible. It was a race against time. 
As long as Epstein was free in Palm Beach, more girls were 
sure to arrive at the side of the house on El Brillo Way. 
Alison: September 1] 
/t might start with th•covers charity balls, 1 
Reporters there woul 
so juicy. On top of that, ( 
freelance paparazzi and : 
They'd kill for the stc 
Heat. 
Over at WPTV, the 
one day. 
It's a tip from a kid, sc 
from a local high school. 
There's a prostitution 
The tip gets brought 
the producers divvy up 
newscasts. 
34 
ERSON 
lea—other victims had to be 
t Epstein's neighbor reported: 
o find them as quickly as pos-
Palm Beach, more girls were 
tse on El Brillo Way. 
CHAPTER 12 
Alison: September 11, 2005 
It might start with the Palm Beach Daily News, which usually 
covers charity balls, equestrian events, and gallery openings. 
Reporters there would kill to sink their teeth into something 
so juicy. On top of that, Chief Reiter knows, Palm Beach is full of 
freelance paparazzi and seasoned semiretired journalists. 
They'd kill for the story, too. For them, it'd be a real-life Body 
Heat. 
Over at WPTV, the local NBC affiliate, the phone rings 
one day. 
It's a tip from a kid, sounding nervous. Something about girls 
from a local high school. 
There's a prostitution ring out in Palm Beach, says the boy. 
The tip gets brought up in a midmorning meeting at which 
the producers divvy up ideas among the various reporters and 
newscasts. 
35 
34 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"Where, exactly?" a producer asks. 
"He didn't say, exactly," an intern replies. "He said that a very 
rich man was involved." 
"Who?" 
"Didn't say." 
"Did he leave a call-back number?" 
"No. The kid sounded really young. Fourteen, fifteen years 
old." 
The producer thinks for a moment, makes a few scratches in 
his dog-eared notepad. 
"Okay," he says. "I'm not sure what we can do with that for 
the moment." 
At some point, some enterprising journalist will put enough 
pieces together to get a sense of the picture. Sooner or later, 
someone will talk. Maybe a parent. Maybe a cop's girlfriend gets 
giddy at lunch. The girlfriend's girlfriend mentions it to her hus-
band, who says something to a golfing buddy in turn. Maybe the 
golfing buddy knows a reporter. 
Or maybe some lawyer goes off the rez, blitzed off those mar-
tinis they serve at the Palm Beach Grill. 
Sooner or later, there's always talk. At that point, Chief Reit-
er's job will get much, much harder —with Epstein on one side, 
the press on the other, and the chief taking flak from all sides. 
But right now, two months into Reiter's investigation, the press 
is still speaking in whispers. 
Right now, Reiter wants to keep it that way. 
And, in the meantime, new pieces of the puzzle keep falling 
into place. 
* * * 
36 
On September II, 
over by the police: 
The patrol officer] 
vehicle. But Alison 
she's cocky and 
from the dime bag 
remarkable story a 
ties with high sch( 
says. She's been g( 
was sixteen. 
At first the cop 
gation into Jeffrey 
burnout. But back 
been bullshitting I 
The investigati 
Alison's name e 
that have been pul 
a misdemeanor, si 
Chief Reiter's colle 
Jeffrey Epstein. 
The story Ails( 
Like Mary, sh( 
tells cops that Ep: 
although, she susr 
Recarey takes 
(transcribed from 
police), D stands 
"victim." 
* Alison's name, som( 
FILTHY RICH 
ERSON 
sks. 
:n replies. "He said that a very 
)er?" 
y.oung. Fourteen, fifteen years 
nent, makes a few scratches in 
what we can do with that for . 
sing journalist will put enough 
if the picture. Sooner or later, 
it. Maybe a cop's girlfriend gets 
ilfriend mentions it to her hus-
)1fing buddy in turn. Maybe the 
)ff the rez, blitzed off those mar-
h Grill. 
s talk. At that point, Chief Reit-
.der —with Epstein on one side, 
chief taking flak from all sides. 
Reiter's investigation, the press 
•eep it that way. 
pieces of the puzzle keep falling 
36 
On September 11, a young woman named Alison gets pulled 
over by the police.* She's carrying a small amount of marijuana. 
The patrol officer handcuffs her and puts her in the back of his 
vehicle. But Alison's been in the back of a police car before, and 
she's cocky and canny enough to pivot the conversation away 
from the dime bag she's been busted with. She tells the officer a 
remarkable story about an older man engaging in sexual activi-
ties with high school girls. Alison knows about it firsthand, she 
says. She's been going to the house on El Brillo Way since she 
was sixteen. 
At first the cop's skeptical. He hasn't heard about the investi-
gation into Jeffrey Epstein's affairs. And, after all, Alison is a 
burnout. But back at the station, he finds out that Alison has not 
been bullshitting him. 
The investigation is real. 
Alison's name and cell phone number match up with messages 
that have been pulled from Epstein's trash. Instead of copping to 
a misdemeanor, she becomes another Jane Doe in the case that 
Chief Reiter's colleague, Detective Joe Recarey, is building against 
Jeffrey Epstein. 
The story Alison ends up telling is extremely disturbing. 
Like Mary, she says, she was recruited in high school. She 
tells cops that Epstein would call her his "number one girl" — 
although, she suspects, there were many others. 
Recarey takes her statement. In the excerpts that follow 
(transcribed from a tape recording made by the Palm Beach 
police), D stands for "Detective Recarey," and V stands for 
"victim." 
* Alison's name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been changed. 
37 
D: 
V: 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Well, ah, start from, like, how you met him, and then I'll — 
I'll take you through. 
Okay. Um, we [Alison and a female friend] worked at Hollister 
together in the Wellington Green mall, and I was mentioning 
to her how I wanted extra money to go to Maine ...I wanted to 
go camping for the summer, and I couldn't afford a plane 
ticket. And—she goes, "Oh, well, you can get a plane ticket in 
two hours." I said, "What are you talking about?" Like, what 
are you—that didn't make any sense to me, a plane ticket in 
two hours; what are you talking about? And she goes, "Oh, we 
can go give this guy a massage, and, um, he'll pay two hundred 
dollars for, like, forty-five minutes or an hour." And that's all 
she told me—no details, no nothing. 
She said that he wanted cute girls, so I looked cute, did my 
best. I didn't—I didn't think that it was what it was. I wasn't 
naive enough to think that he was gonna pay me two hun-
dred dollars just for nothing—I, I don't know, like, I don't 
know what was going through my head. I absolutely don't 
know. And I— the back of my mind was thinking, oh, well, 
it could be legitimate, but I was also thinking, you know, at 
the same time, is she fucking crazy? Like, this guy's not 
gonna pay you money for not doing anything, not letting him 
cop a feel or nothing. You know? So I didn't know what to 
think, I was like, "Oh ... if he does something that I have a 
problem with, then I'll leave." 
D: Who were you introduced to? 
V: One of his girlfriends. One of his, like, slaves that he has live 
with him. And when I say "slaves," like, one of the girls that 
38 
he bought to, like, 
to one of them pro 
Sarah. Urn, that's hi 
but I don't know. Ur 
and she's the one v 
second. And from 
really—I didn't pa: 
So ... we were waiti 
um, Jeffrey comes 
He just introduced 
'cause I was pissed 
was pissed off. He 
and says, "Thank )7( 
stairs," and I was lii 
And that's how I wa 
Urn. Hold on—I'm 
head. I wore a skin 
wore a skirt and ju5 
his legs, and he ask' 
think I said no at f 
showing" — he tall< 
you're not showing 
even know. So I en 
goes— well, I thint 
top of me. So —and 
D: When you're sayir 
breasts? 
V: Yeah. And then he a 
my shirt, but I kepi 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
you met him, and then I'll—
ale friend] worked at Hollister 
m mall, and I was mentioning 
:y to go to Maine...I wanted to 
and I couldn't afford a plane 
Al, you can get a plane ticket in 
Tou talking about?" Like, what 
1 sense to me, a plane ticket in 
g about? And she goes, "Oh, we 
and, um, he'll pay two hundred 
utes or an hour." And that's all 
)thing. 
girls, so I looked cute, did my 
that it was what it was. I wasn't 
le was gonna pay me two hun-
I don't know, like, I don't 
igh my head. I absolutely don't 
iy mind was thinking, oh, well, 
was also thinking, you know, at 
ing crazy? Like, this guy's not 
t doing anything, not letting him 
mow? So I didn't know what to 
he does something that I have a 
1) 
o? 
of his, like, slaves that he has live 
'slaves," like, one of the girls that 
38 
D: 
V: 
he bought to, like, have sex with him. Urn, I was introduced 
to one of them probably, like ... Sarah. I was introduced to 
Sarah. Urn, that's his assistant, I think. I think they have sex, 
but I don't know. Um, I was introduced to his assistant Sarah, 
and she's the one who told me that he would be ready in a 
second. And from there I met various other girls. I don't 
really—I didn't pay attention to who they were, though.... 
So ... we were waiting on the couch in the bathroom, and, 
urn, Jeffrey comes up, and he's like, "Hey, I'm—I'm Jeffrey." 
He just introduced himself, and he hands—I remember this 
'cause I was pissed off that she got paid to bring me. Like, I 
was pissed off. He hands her a wad of hundred-dollar bills 
and says, "Thank you," and she says, "I'll wait for you down-
stairs," and I was like, "All right, I'll see you in a little while." 
And that's how I was brought to Jeffrey. 
Urn. Hold on—I'm remembering. I'm, like, picturing in my 
head. I wore a skirt. I remember specifically what I wore: I 
wore a skirt and just a regular T-shirt. And I was massaging 
his legs, and he asked me to take off my skirt. And I said—I 
think I said no at first. And he's like, "Come on, you're not 
showing" —he talked me into it, basically. He's like, "Oh, 
you're not showing anything," or [he] did something; I don't 
even know. So I ended up taking off my skirt, and then he 
goes—well, I think he just started touching, you know, the 
top of me. So—and then he asked me. 
When you're saying "the top of you," you mean your 
breasts? 
Yeah. And then he asked me to take off my shirt. So I took off 
my shirt, but I kept my underwear on. And I wouldn't take 
39 
JAMES PATTERSON 
my underwear off: I told him no. And he still paid me the 
same amount. And that was that. I went home. 
D: So, in other words, he — 
V: Finished with himself and that was it. Yeah, he ejaculated. 
Specifically. 
D: That was the first time you went there? 
V: Mm-hmm. 
D: And—I know, take a deep breath, I know, I can see it in your 
eyes already. From then on, you went there multiple times? 
V: I had problems with it. [With] what happened the first time. 
But three hundred dollars for forty minutes—that was a lot 
for a sixteen-year-old girl making six bucks an hour. 
D: So you're saying you're sure you were sixteen now? 
V: Urn, I don't want to say I'm sure of my age. I was under seven-
teen, one hundred percent. 
D: Okay. Urn, when you—the first time you went, when he 
masturbated, did you see? 
V: [giggles] 
D: His member? 
V: Oh, I thought you were going to ask me if I saw, like, his come. 
D: No. 
V: I saw all of the above. 
D: You saw him naked, fully naked? Fully naked? 
V: Yeah, a hundred percent naked. He had a towel on for some 
of it, but that doesn't mean anything. Like, he was naked. 
D: He took off the towel? 
V: I saw everything, yeah. 
40 
I mean, I'm sorry, 
cised, a hundred a 
has some sort of bii 
it is [giggles]; I've n 
done anything whi 
it—out of the who 
his penis. Like, he-
but I've never ever I 
or "I'm gonna do tF 
I don't know—do) 
I'm just really emb 
drop of water. It's r 
top, where it's attac 
Like, I just could t€ 
can obviously tell i: 
he wasn't. 
D: The next time you 
escalate more? 
Mm-hmm. I actuall: 
me to start workirq 
went there. But I sta 
he was in the coun 
him that I wouldn't 
was my rule. Nothir 
ing, absolutely noth 
three or four hundr, 
Um, I still never—I 
entire time I never, 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
no. And he still paid me the 
it. I went home. 
it was it. Yeah, he ejaculated. 
at there? 
ath, I know, I can see it in your 
)11 went there multiple times? 
I what happened the first time. 
forty minutes—that was a lot 
cing six bucks an hour. 
au were sixteen now? 
re of my age. I was under seven-
first time you went, when he 
, to ask me if I saw, like, his come. 
iked? Fully naked? 
ked. He had a towel on for some 
inything. Like, he was naked. 
40 
I mean, I'm sorry, he is circumcised, my bad. He's circum-
cised, a hundred and ten percent sure. A matter of fact, he 
has some sort of birth defect. On his thing. I don't know what 
it is [giggles]; I've never really looked at it, because I've never 
done anything where I had to touch it. I've never touched 
it— out of the whole time I worked for him, I never touched 
his penis. Like, he—I'm pretty sure he rubbed it against me, 
but I've never ever been, like, "Okay, I'm letting you do this" 
or "I'm gonna do this to you." Um, it's really weirdly shaped. 
I don't know— do you want me to, like, tell you this? 
I'm just really embarrassed. Urn, it's like a teardrop, like a 
drop of water. It's really fat at the bottom and skinny at the 
top, where it's attached. And he never gets fully hard, ever. 
Like, I just could tell by looking at it—like, by looking you 
can obviously tell if you're hard or not, and I could tell that 
he wasn't. 
D: The next time you went, or as you continued to go, did it 
escalate more? 
V. Mm-hmm. I actually—I don't remember how long it took for 
me to start working for him regularly, from the first time I 
went there. But I started working every day. Every single day 
he was in the country I would be there ... And, urn, I told 
him that I wouldn't let him put anything inside of me; that 
was my rule. Nothing inside of me—no fingers, no, no noth-
ing, absolutely nothing inside of me. He increased my pay to 
three or four hundred dollars as long as he could touch me. 
Um, I still never—I, I swear I never touched him, the whole 
t, entire time I never, ever touched him. Urn, but he, he-
41 
JAMES PATTERSON 
D: How many times would you say you went? 
V: Hundreds. Hundreds. I was—he used to tell me I was his 
favorite. He bought me a car. He bought me — 
D: This Jeep that you're driving? 
V: No. I had a brand-new Dodge Neon. I got a plane—I got a 
plane ticket to New York; I got spending money whenever I 
wanted. Like, I was in there deep. I was—he asked my par-
ents to emancipate me so I could live with him. Or he didn't 
ask my parents, he asked me to ask my parents, I'm sorry. He 
actually wanted me to come live with him. 
D: As, like, a girlfriend? 
V: Sex slave, whatever you want to call it. Yeah. Urn, but it 
escalated—he, he just increased my pay, as long as he could 
touch me. I wouldn't let him put anything inside of me. And 
then one day he just did, one day he just put his hand, like, 
his fingers—and, urn... 
D: How long, would you say, from the very first time you went? 
V: Months. Honestly, I never kept track, like, of, of what happened 
when. I just can tell you in which order things progressed. 
It was—it was, like, towards the middle and end of my 
school year. But I remember that for the last, like, six or eight 
weeks of high school, I didn't have a car 'cause I gave it back 
to him. Because he—he asked me to have sex with him and, 
like, like suck him and stuff [giggles], and I was just like, no. 
Definitely not. I was like, "I'll let you touch me, but I'm not 
gonna do that." 
Yeah, the car was a Dodge Neon 2005. He got it for me before 
the New Year, because I remember I got it—it was an edition 
42 
D: 
V: 
D: 
D: 
V: 
D: 
that was a year befc 
got it, I obviously , 
got a 2005 Neon in 
car was awesome [: 
I gave it back befor, 
for me. He wanted 
wanna — I didn't w 
have sex with him. 
to walk away from] 
that. And I'm glad t 
But I lied to him wF 
bridges, because h, 
Spectacular. Even i 
him. Until this day. 
to him in, like, a co 
would give me as rri 
know that I hate hi 
figured he used me 
that, but I figured if 
Okay. Let me bring 
Sure. 
When did things st 
when the massages 
They escalated wh( 
stand the question. 
Okay. The first time 
Are you asking for a 
Oh, no, no, no—
EERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ty you went? 
—he used to tell me I was his 
ie bought me—
Neon. I got a plane—I got a 
ot spending money whenever I 
leep. I was—he asked my par-
)uld live with him. Or he didn't 
to ask my parents, I'm sorry. He 
ive with him. 
,nt to call it. Yeah. Urn, but it 
ased my pay, as long as he could 
put anything inside of me. And 
.e day he just put his hand, like, 
pm the very first time you went? 
)t track, like, of, of what happened 
hich order things progressed. 
trds the middle and end of my 
that for the last, like, six or eight 
n't have a car 'cause I gave it back 
ked me to have sex with him and, 
[giggles], and I was just like, no. 
let you touch me, but I'm not 
Neon 2005. He got it for me before 
member I got it—it was an edition 
42 
that was a year before they were supposed to come out. So if I 
got it, I obviously didn't get a 2006, 'cause that's this year. I 
got a 2005 Neon in 2004. Seven miles on it when I got it. The 
car was awesome [giggles]. 
I gave it back before I graduated. It got too—it got too sticky 
for me. He wanted more than I was willing to give. I didn't 
wanna — I didn't want to, um, suck his dick. I didn't want to 
have sex with him. I never did that, and I wanted to be able 
to walk away from this saying that I—saying that I never did 
that. And I'm glad that I did. 
But I lied to him when I gave it back. I didn't want to burn my 
bridges, because he was a spectacular connection to have. 
Spectacular. Even if I didn't—even when I didn't work for 
him. Until this day, he is so aw— he is so—I haven't talked 
to him in, like, a couple months, but if I called him today he 
would give me as much money as I asked him for. He doesn't 
know that I hate him the way I do. I kept that connection. I 
figured he used me, I'd be able to use him. Urn, I hate to say 
that, but I figured if I wanted to use him I could. 
D: Okay. Let me bring you back a little bit. 
V: Sure. 
D: When did things start to escalate as far as things happening 
when the massages were given? 
V: They escalated whenever he wanted. I don't clearly under-
stand the question. 
D: Okay. The first time you went, you were naked — 
V: Are you asking for a date? 
D: Oh, no, no, no-
43 
JAMES PATTERSON 
V: ... and the little steps that things progressed? 
D: Right. 
V: Well, I went and I wouldn't take off my panties at first. And 
then he got me to get naked. Then he got me to let him rub me. 
Then he got me to let him stick his fingers in me. Then he got 
me to let him go down on me. Then, um—that was pretty 
much the gist of it, except this one time, where he bent me over 
the table and put himself in me. Without my permission. And I 
flipped out. I'm sorry, I didn't ask you, but I don't count that as 
me having sex with him.... 'Cause I just told you that I never 
had sex with him. I never did. Even though, I don't know what 
you'd consider that. But he then—I go, "What are you doing?" 
He goes, "Oh, I just wanted [redacted] to see this." 
D: Okay. Let me back you up. When you were completely naked, 
the same things happened? You went in, you massaged him? 
V: Sometimes I didn't even do that. Sometimes he just asked me 
to take off my clothes and—he'd have to do work, he'd be 
sitting at his desk or something, and I'd just be naked there, 
watching television or reading a book, but I'd be naked. Or, 
um, sometimes he wanted to just watch TV or read, and he'd 
lay in his bed and ask me to take my clothes off and lay with 
him. And that's it. Not touch him or anything.... Sometimes 
he'd just invite me over for breakfast, for dinner, or just to 
use the swimming pool, and I'd get paid for that, too. I'd get 
paid just to hang out with him. That's it. And if the money 
wasn't there, I wouldn't have ever been in that house. 
D: Okay. When he started to touch you — 
V: I have a question. Before I say anything else. Urn, is there a 
possibility that I'm gonna have to go to court or anything? 
Like, that's a possibility, right? 
D: Well, here's the thin 
going to sit down, NA, 
he did to you is a cril 
V: Would you consider 
be rape, what he didi 
D: If he put himself insi 
V: I didn't say that, or ai 
is about, like, my hip 
D: That, that is a crime. 
V: I don't want my fan 
doesn't know any of t 
for two years, or how 
thinks I made phone 
ing my [unintelligibli 
know anything. 
D: Well, you're an adult 
done with this interv-
decide the best coursE 
V: 'Cause Jeffrey's gonm 
He's gonna find—he's 
I'm not safe now. You - 
D: He is not this person t 
V: Well — 
D: Why do you say you'r( 
before? 
V: Well, I've heard him m 
yeah. Of course. 
D: You're gonna die? You') 
V: All the above! But that 
D: Who's he talking to? 
FILTHY RICH 
ER SON 
gs progressed? 
ke off my panties at first. And 
len he got me to let him rub me. 
his fingers in me. Then he got 
ie. Then, urn—that was pretty 
one time, where he bent me over 
Without my permission. And I 
ask you, but I don't count that as 
.ause I just told you that I never 
Even though, I don't know what 
m —I go, "What are you doing?" 
dacted] to see this." 
ben you were completely naked, 
(ou went in, you massaged him? 
hat. Sometimes he just asked me 
—he'd have to do work, he'd be 
king, and I'd just be naked there, 
Lng a book, but I'd be naked. Or, 
o just watch TV or read, and he'd 
take my clothes off and lay with 
h him or anything.... Sometimes 
breakfast, for dinner, or just to 
id I'd get paid for that, too. I'd get 
him. That's it. And if the money 
re ever been in that house. 
ouch you—
say anything else. Urn, is there a 
have to go to court or anything? 
ght? 
44 
D: Well, here's the thing: When this is all said and done, we're 
going to sit down, we're going to discuss this. I mean, what 
he did to you is a crime. I'm not gonna lie to you. 
V: Would you consider it rape? Like, would you consider that to 
be rape, what he did? 
I/ If he put himself inside you, without permission — 
V: I didn't say that, or anything. I was standing up and the table 
is about, like, my hip length—he just put me down — 
D: That, that is a crime. That is a crime. 
V: I don't want my family to find out about this. My family 
doesn't know any of this. My mom thinks I was his secretary, 
for two years, or however long—a year and a half. My mom 
thinks I made phone calls for him and that's how I was mak-
ing my [unintelligible] money. That's it. I don't want her to 
know anything. 
D: Well, you're an adult. You're an adult now.... When we're 
done with this interview, we'll discuss this further and we'll 
decide the best course. 
V: 'Cause Jeffrey's gonna get me. You guys realize that, right? 
He's gonna find—he's gonna figure this out. And he's gonna — 
I'm not safe now. You understand that, right? I'm not safe. 
D: He is not this person that he is portraying himself to be — 
V: Well — 
D: Why do you say you're not safe? Has he said he's hurt people 
before? 
V: Well, I've heard him make threats to people on the telephone, 
yeah. Of course. 
D: You're gonna die? You're gonna break your legs? Or — 
V: All the above! But that's not the point. 
D: Who's he talking to? 
45 
JAMES PATTERSON 
V: I don't know. I don't know, I heard those conversations, I 
mean, I've been in the room when he was on the phone and 
[unintelligible] threatened. Like, I witnessed lots of things. I 
just don't know what, specifically you all [want to know]. 
D: Everything. 
V: I used to go there every day, like I w —I don't, I don't know 
how many other girls he was saying, "You're my favorite, and 
I want you to live with me" to, but I was in about as deep as 
you can get. 
D: He had quite a few girls he would say that to. 
D: Do you have any formal massage training? 
V: [Giggles.] Hell, no. 
D: All right, I was just asking. 
V: He would kiss me and stuff, too. I remember that. And when 
he kissed me, if he was jerking off he would, like, rub him-
self on my breasts. And I ... I was extremely uncomfortable. I 
would maneuver myself away from that activity. I'd get up 
and I'd move somewhere else, or I'd—I don't even remember. 
I would stop whatever was going on without saying, "Can 
you get the fuck off me?" I would stop it without saying stuff 
like that. 
D: Okay. 
V: I wouldn't let him put anything in me until one day he did 
just out of nowhere. And I said, "Wait a second: my boyfriend, 
you know, we had this thing, you can't do that. You know, 
I'm —I'm allowed to work here as long as you don't do that." 
And he said "okay." Well, a couple months later I guess he 
46 
assumed me and my 
it one day; he just did 
I said, "What are yo 
cool," and he goes, "C 
I said, "No, we did nc 
uh, and then he just c 
why don't I just give y 
out?" And I was like 
no to. I don't know if. ; 
Oh, Yeah. Well, if ye 
tries to control the sit 
out of your mouth, i 
going to say. Like, ti 
money is knowing wF 
pie are gonna do. 
D: What did he tell you h 
V: Well, there's a coupi. 
myself, things I looke 
cally told me when I a 
brain scientist." And I 
tist?" I was like, "Tha 
But anyway ... his expl 
people's brains work." 
means. Whatever. You 
ble....1" You know wfu 
held on so long is, he pi 
That I would get into 
waited, and I waited, al 
get 4.O—like, I did gre; 
fERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
D: 
V: 
. heard those conversations, I 
vhen he was on the phone and 
ke, I witnessed lots of things. I 
ally, you all [want to know]. 
like I w —I don't, I don't know 
saying, "You're my favorite, and 
o, but I was in about as deep as 
ould say that to. 
sage training? 
too. I remember that. And when 
Ling off he would, like, rub him-
I was extremely uncomfortable. I 
vay from that activity. I'd get up 
;e, or I'd—I don't even remember. 
3 going on without saying, "Can 
would stop it without saying stuff 
'thing in me until one day he did 
said, "Wait a second: my boyfriend, 
Ling, you can't do that. You know, 
here as long as you don't do that.' 
, a couple months later I guess he 
46 
assumed me and my boyfriend had broken up, and he just did 
it one day; he just did it without asking or anything. And then 
I said, "What are you doing?" I said, "You know that's not 
cool," and he goes, "Oh, I thought we did that last time." And 
I said, "No, we did not do that last time." And then he goes—
uh, and then he just offered me more money. He's like, "Well, 
why don't I just give you something extra, and we can try this 
out?" Arid I was like [sigh], "All right." Very hard guy to say 
no to. I don't know if. any of you guys ever talked to him.... 
Oh, yeah. Well, if you talk to him, I mean, he straight up 
tries to control the situation. Every—every word that comes 
out of your mouth, it seems like, he knows what you are 
going to say. Like, that's his job; that's how he made his 
money is knowing what people are gonna say and what peo-
ple are gonna do. 
What did he tell you he does for a living? 
Well, there's a couple of things. Things that I found for 
myself, things I looked up on the Internet. What he specifi-
cally told me when I asked him the first time was, "Oh, I'm a 
brain scientist." And I said, "What the fuck is a brain scien-
tist?" I was like, "That's not a real job—tell me the truth." 
But anyway ... his explanation was, "It's my job to know how 
people's brains work." And I said, "Whatever the fuck that 
means. Whatever. You're like some old guy who [unintelligi-
ble... I" You know what he promised me? Here's the reason I 
held on so long is, he promised me that I would get into NYU. 
That I would get into NYU and he would pay for it. And I 
waited, and I waited, and I scored great on my SATs, I would 
get 4.0—like, I did great in school. I filled out my application 
47 
JAMES PATTERSON 
D: 
V: 
D: 
V: 
and he told me that it wasn't good enough. So I filled it out 
again, and it was like three times. So I'm pretty sure he wasn't 
checking into it, he was just telling me that he was. But I 
think that had a lot to do with the reason I stayed there so 
long, 'cause my dream was right in front of me, you know? 
And it's so far.... 
Aside from having been with [redacted], 
else that you brought to the house? 
I brought a few people.... Because it got 
Like, everyone at school knew. You know 
It was a circle, and—
It was a little circle, yeah.... Not that I would want anybody 
to get involved. ... I brought girls I didn't like and, frankly, 
did not give a shit about. Girls that I knew were skanks. That 
would do anything. Girls that would just, like, suck dick in 
the bathroom at school. Like, not even people I was friends 
with. I'd just hear a rumor about a girl and be like, "Hey, I 
know a way you can make two hundred dollars. How 
about ..." I would tell them flat out, like, "This is what you've 
got to do. Are you cool with this? 'Cause I'm not gonna take 
you if you're not." So I told them. They all know that I got 
paid to bring them. It was actually [redactedl. She took off 
her shirt. She was a little overweight, so he didn't want any-
thing to do [with herb She was my best friend. But, you 
know, she was another story. I did care about her. But, urn, 
she lost her house and stuff and really needed money. She 
had—she was homeless, she had nowhere to go. So she did it 
out of desperation. 
D: Did he ever hurt you? 
was there anybody 
out that I did this. 
, everyone talks—
V: Sometimes he got vic 
D: Violent as in what? A 
V: He pulled my hair. 
pulled. Like, he— o" 
you're all, like, not-
mean, like, if you're 
like, my ponytails—
would pull it to whei 
my hair, and then so) 
throw me whichever 
just like use a toy ot 
penis, though, ever. 
little, so he could pu 
throw, obviously it's 
I mean, there's been• 
able to walk, urn, ft 
really—nothing spec 
can't really recall. 
Nothing that I went ti 
getting tore up a few i 
D: This is getting real pe 
V: What, like, had I had 
D: Okay. 
V: Urn. But honest, I me; 
three steady boyfrien( 
ever done anything w 
a year. So it's not like 
FILTHY RICH 
ERSON 
pod enough. So I filled it out 
es. So I'm pretty sure he wasn't 
telling me that he was. But I 
h the reason I stayed there so 
ght in front of me, you know? 
[redacted], was there anybody 
Duse? 
muse it got out that I did this. 
. You know, everyone talks—
Not that I would want anybody 
girls I didn't like and, frankly, 
s that I knew were skanks. That 
at would just, like, suck dick in 
not even people I was friends 
about a girl and be like, "Hey, I 
ke two hundred dollars. How 
lat out, like, "This is what you've 
this? 'Cause I'm not gonna take 
them. They all know that I got 
actually [redacted]. She took off 
Terweight, so he didn't want any-
& was my best friend. But, you 
ry. I did care about her. But, urn, 
.ff and really needed money. She 
le had nowhere to go. So she did it 
48 
V: Sometimes he got violent, yeah. 
D: Violent as in what? As in — 
V: He pulled my hair a lot harder than it should have been 
pulled. Like, he—okay, I can understand having sex, and 
you're all, like, not—not that we were having sex, but I 
mean, like, if you're all into it and you pull hair a little bit, 
like, my ponytails—just like a little bit, whatever. But he 
would pull it to where it would rip my hair out. it would rip 
my hair, and then sometimes he would pick me up and, like, 
throw me whichever way he wanted me, and then he would 
just like use a toy or, like, his hand or whatever. Never his 
penis, though, ever. I never had sex with him. But urn—I'm 
little, so he could pick me up. Like, if you pick me up and 
throw, obviously it's gonna hurt.... 
I mean, there's been nights that I walked out of there barely 
able to walk, urn, from him being so rough. But nothing 
really—nothing specific that he really got violent with. Like, 
I can't really recall. 
Nothing that I went to the doctor for, no. I mean, I remember 
getting tore up a few times, but it was nothing that—
D: This is getting real personal, but were you active before him? 
V: What, like, had I had sex? Yeah [laughs]. 
D: Okay. 
V: Urn. But honest, I mean, I'm not—I'm not a ho. I've had only 
three steady boyfriends, and those are the only three that I've 
ever done anything with. And they were all with me for over 
a year. So it's not like I just go and hook up at parties. 
49 
only in me for, like 
could say that ion: 
whatever the fuck 
you doing?" [giggl 
"Oh, I just wanted 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Like, I've gotten thousands of dollars' worth of shit. Man, the 
underwear I'm wearing right now he gave me. Like, I'd—I'd 
go over there and there'd be a bag of Victoria's Secret under-
wear, like, waiting for me, like, talking, like, fifteen hundred 
dollars' worth of stuff. I got a plane ticket from him once. I 
got a car, I got Christmas bonuses, I got movie tickets. Like, 
he'd buy me movie tickets— like, he'd say, "Hey, have you 
gone to the movies lately?" I'd be like, "I dunno, oh—not 
really," [and] he goes, "Do you want to go?" He'd give me, 
like, eight movie tickets. I got show tickets; I went and 
saw, like, David Copperfield. I had, like, VIP tickets or some-
thing like that. 
I need to show you, like, what I'm talking about, like, the posi-
tioning that we were—it was like, okay, here's the thing: there's 
the, like, little flower thing, then here's the massage table. I was 
right here, he was right here, [and] she was here. Urn. And I was 
standing up, and he just pushed me over the table, and he did 
his thing with me. 
D: Okay. Were you facing the table? Were you? 
V: I was. I was facedown on the table. Like, facedown, hands, 
like, on my head, holding—I don't, I don't mean—I wasn't 
fighting, really. So I don't know if he was holding me down to 
kinda stop me from fighting or what he was doing. He's just a 
really weird—he's into really weird stuff. Like, I was just bent 
over, and my face was on the table. I was facedown on the 
table. And then he did his thing. So. But anyway, [redacted] was 
right here, and I'm pretty sure she was naked, and the couch 
is, like, right behind, but, urn, that's how it happened. . .. He was 
50 
FILTHY RICH 
1RSON 
ollars' worth of shit. Man, the 
ow he gave me. Like, I'd—I'd 
bag of Victoria's Secret under-
talking, like, fifteen hundred 
plane ticket from him once. I 
uses, I got movie tickets. Like, 
like, he'd say, "Hey, have you 
'd be like, "I dunno, oh—not 
Du want to go?" He'd give me, 
got show tickets; I went and 
I had, like, VIP tickets or some-
I'm talking about, like, the posi-
like, okay, here's the thing: there's 
Len here's the massage table. I was 
.and] she was here. Um. And I was 
hed me over the table, and he did 
able? Were you? 
:he table. Like, facedown, hands, 
—I don't, I don't mean—' wasn't 
-low if he was holding me down to 
or what he was doing. He's just a 
.ly weird stuff. Like, I was just bent 
the table. I was facedown on the 
ling. So. But anyway, [redacted] was 
3ure she was naked, and the couch 
m, that's how it happened. . . He was 
50 
only in me for, like, a minute or two. I don't even know if you 
could say that long. He put it in, did a couple of pumps, or 
whatever the fuck you wanna call it, and I was like, "What are 
you doing?" [giggles] I go, "What are you doing?" He's like, 
"Oh, I just wanted [redacted] to see this." Then that was that. 
the Canopy Beach 
asked if she wanted 
have to provide a mi 
thought about the off 
Molly (Unknowi. 
name) picked [Dob[ 
house. Upon her arr 
Epstein in the kitch 
duced to a white fem, 
upstairs to the main 
bedroom. 
Sarah arranged t, 
with a sheet. She broi 
next to the massage 
informed [Dobbs] Jet 
the bedroom wearing 
He removed the 
table. He laid on the 
massage oil for [Dobb 
"He tried to touch m 
I asked how he tried tc 
grabbed her buttocks , 
"I'll massage you," Di 
to be touched." 
[Dobbs] stated she per 
elusion of the massage 
CHAPTER 13 
Wendy Dobbs: October 3, 2005 
Eti 
very chance he gets— and he gets lots of chances— Chief 
Reiter drills the same thing into his investigators' heads: 
they need to be careful. Patient. Methodical. Strategic. Or 
Epstein's lawyers will eat them for lunch. 
Inch by inch, they move their case toward the goalpost. But 
in October, Detective Recarey and his coworkers catch a break 
that moves the ball several yards down the field. 
On the first Monday of that month, they pick Wendy up at her 
house and, down at the police station, she starts to sing—like a bird. 
The detectives can hardly believe it or get it all down fast 
enough. Later on, in a probable-cause affidavit, Detective Recarey 
will write: 
Approximately two years ago, just after she turned 17 years 
of age, [Wendy] was approached by a friend named Molly at 
52 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 13 
005 
[ he gets lots of chances—Chief 
ng into his investigators' heads: 
'atient. Methodical. Strategic. Or 
for lunch. 
.ir case toward the goalpost. But 
and his coworkers catch a break 
Es down the field. 
month, they pick Wendy up at her 
ttion, she starts to sing—like a bird. 
believe it or get it all down fast 
-cause affidavit, Detective Recarey 
p, just after she turned 17 years 
ched by a friend named Molly at 
52 
the Canopy Beach Resort in Riviera Beach. [Dobbs] was 
asked if she wanted to make money. She was told she would 
have to provide a massage and should make $200. [Dobbs] 
thought about the offer and agreed to meet with Jeffrey. 
Molly (Unknown last name) and Tony (Unknown last 
name) picked [Dobbs] up and she was taken to Epstein's 
house. Upon her arrival to the house she was introduced to 
Epstein in the kitchen of the house. She was also intro-
duced to a white female known to her as Sarah. She was led 
upstairs to the main bedroom known to her as Jeff Epstein's 
bedroom. 
Sarah arranged the massage table and covered the table 
with a sheet. She brought out the massage oils and laid them 
next to the massage bed. Sarah then left the room and 
informed [Dobbs] Jeff would be in, in a minute. Jeff entered 
the bedroom wearing only a towel. 
He removed the towel and laid nude on the massage 
table. He laid on the table onto his stomach and picked a 
massage oil for [Dobbs] to rub on him. 
"He tried to touch me, and I stopped him," says Dobbs. 
I asked how he tried to touch her. [Dobbs] stated that Epstein 
grabbed her buttocks and she felt uncomfortable. 
"I'll massage you," Dobbs had told Epstein. "But I don't want 
to be touched." 
[Dobbs] stated she performed the massage naked. At the con-
clusion of the massage, Epstein paid [Dobbs] $200. 
53 
JAMES PATTERSON 
After the massage Epstein stated to [Dobbs] that he 
understood she was not comfortable, but he would pay her if 
she brought over some girls. He told her the younger the bet-
ter. (Dobbs] stated she once tried to bring a 23-year-old 
female and Epstein stated that the female was too old. 
(Dobbs] stated that in total she only remembers six girls that 
she brought to see Epstein. Each time she was paid $200. 
[Dobbs] said at the time she brought these girls to Epstein's 
house they were all 14 through 16 [years] of age. 
Wendy Dobbs keeps talking. What she says about Mary's 
visit lines up neatly with what Mary's already told the police. 
Wendy's own experience with Epstein syncs up, too. But Wen-
dy's not a victim, as Mary is. After all, she's been playing on 
Epstein's team. Team predator. 
A police sergeant enters the room. What he wants to know is, 
does Wendy realize that she's implicated herself in Epstein's 
crimes? 
Beads of sweat form on Wendy's forehead, and now the police 
know they've really got her. She gives them phone numbers to go 
with the young girls she's named. She provides addresses. But 
no, Wendy doesn't quite get it. On the way home, in a police car, 
she brags in the backseat: 
"I'm like a Heidi Fleiss," she tells the escorting officers. 
54 
Wendy Dobbs, inter 
Sergeant Frick, Oct( 
video (excerpts) 
RECAREY: Okay. Your* 
of all, I know you're 
Okay? I want to thar 
door's closed, you're 
you know, it's only c 
DOBBS: That's fine. 
RECAREY: I understan, 
case that we're look 
brought you here tod 
untarily. You agreed 
I do want to talk yc 
thing. 
DOBBS: And I don't neec 
ERSON 
stated to [Dobbs] that he 
tble, but he would pay her if 
:old her the younger the bet-
-ied to bring a 23-year-0ld 
it the female was too old. 
mly remembers six girls that 
eh time she was paid $200. 
ought these girls to Epstein's 
16 [years] of age. 
What she says about Mary's 
Mary's already told the police. 
4)stein syncs up, too. But Wen-
kfter all, she's been playing on 
700M. What he wants to know is, 
implicated herself in Epstein's 
dy's forehead, and now the police 
: gives them phone numbers to go 
aed. She provides addresses. But 
On the way home, in a police car, 
e tells the escorting officers. 
54 
CHAPTER 14 
Wendy Dobbs, interview with Detective Recarey and 
Sergeant Frick, October 3, 2005, transcribed from 
video (excerpts) 
RECAREY: Okay. Your Pepsi's coming, my Pepsi's coming. First 
of all, I know you're freaking out. Don't freak out, just relax. 
Okay? I want to thank you for coming. All right? Though the 
. door's closed, you're free to go at any time. You're not here—
you know, it's only closed for our privacy. 
DOBBS: That's fine. 
RECAREY: I understand that you may have information on a 
case that we're looking into, okay? That's the reason why I 
brought you here today. All right? And again, you're here vol-
untarily. You agreed to come back with us and talk to us. But 
I do want to talk you about Jeff Epstein, and the whole... 
thing. 
DOBBS: And I don't need a lawyer, right? 
55 
JAMES PATTERSON 
RECAREY: It's up to you. If you wanted one, you can have one. 
I can't tell you yes or no on that. That's totally [up] to you, I'm 
only — 
DOBBS: I'm not gonna get in trouble for anything I say, right? 
RECAREY: Right now, you're just a witness. I'm talking to you as 
a witness.... That's totally up to you. You wanna talk to me? 
DOBBS: I have no problem telling you everything I know. I'm a 
very cooperative person. 
RECAREY: Okay. How did you first meet, um.—
DOBBS: I first met Jeffrey—I was at a beach resort on Singer 
Island, and I was approached by this girl I went to school 
with. Her name was [redacted]. And she was asking me, you 
know, "Oh, you need extra money, I know this guy...." I 
thought about it and I finally gave her a call, and her and her 
friend [redacted] met up with me. I actually picked them up 
and we drove down to Jeffrey's house. She introduced me, 
whatever. 
RECAREY: Okay. Now, what [do] you mean by making money, 
how do you make money with Jeffrey? 
DOBBS: Um, there's two ways. There's two ways you can make 
money. He'll, all right — 
RECAREY: That's all right. Talk to me. Talk to me like, like 
nothin'. 
DOBBS: How do I say— this is going to sound really sleazy, but 
RECAREY: No. Go ahead. Talk to me. 
DOBBS: Every girl that meets Jeffrey starts off with giving him a 
massage. The more you do with him, the more you make. 
Basically, if you take off your clothes, you're gonna make more. 
If you let him do things to you, you're gonna make more. 
RECAREY: Like "do things" you mean, touch you? 
56 
DOBBS: Yeah. Touch yoi 
RECAREY: Okay. Does I 
DOBBS: He uses his hand 
I guess it's like a ma 
that refused to do th 
but I wouldn't let hirr 
that he's like, "You l 
you $200 for every 
don't want you to ma: 
girls to me...." So th; 
For every girl that yc 
that I brought to Jeffri 
there. 
RECAREY: Just to bring 
DOBBS: Yeah. Just to brir 
RECAREY: Okay. And t: 
would have to massag 
DOBBS: She knew ever)/ 
one of Jeffrey's rules. 
the house that didn't 
would tell me, you knc 
expect, make sure the 
I get in that room I di 
need to know." And, 
everything she was get 
RECAREY: Okay. What di 
DOBBS: I told her the sam 
Jeffrey --she came to r 
I basically told her at 
"What do you have to 
TERSON 
wanted one, you can have one. 
it. That's totally [up] to you, I'm 
ble for anything I say, right? 
a witness. I'm talking to you as 
to you. You wanna talk to me? 
tg you everything I know. I'm a 
irst meet, um—
vas at a beach resort on Singer 
by this girl I went to school 
.!.d1. And she was asking me, you 
I money, I know this guy...." I 
y gave her a call, and her and her 
th me. I actually picked them up 
'rey's house. She introduced me, 
dol you mean by making money, 
•ith Jeffrey? 
. There's two ways you can make 
'alk to me. Talk to me like, like 
going to sound really sleazy, but 
k to me. 
Jeffrey starts off with giving him a 
lo with him, the more you make. 
ur clothes, you're gonna make more. 
you, you're gonna make more. 
,ou mean, touch you? 
56 
FILTHY RICH 
DOBBS: Yeah. Touch you in inappropriate places. 
RECAREY: Okay. Does he use his hand? Does he — 
DOBBS: He uses his hands and, I really wouldn't call it a vibrator — 
I guess it's like a massager? But urn—I was one of the girls 
that refused to do that. I did it basically my—I did it naked, 
but I wouldn't let him touch me or anything like that. So after 
that he's like, "You know what?" He's like, "Listen, I'll pay 
you $200 for every girl that you bring to me." He's like, "I 
don't want you to massage me anymore, you know, just bring 
girls to me...." So that's the other way you can make money. 
For every girl that you bring to the table—so, for every girl 
that I brought to Jeffrey—I would make $200. Flat. Just right 
there. 
RECAREY: Just to bring a girl. 
DOBBS: Yeah. Just to bring a girl. 
RECAREY: Okay. And the girl that was going knew that she 
would have to massage him. 
DOBBS: She knew everything. She knew everything. That was 
one of Jeffrey's rules. He had a problem with girls coming to 
the house that didn't know what they were getting into. He 
would tell me, you know, "Make sure these girls know what I 
expect, make sure they know what they want, because when 
I get in that room I don't want them to—you know—they 
need to know." And, as far as [redacteas case, she knew 
everything she was getting herself into. It was all volunteer. 
RECAREY: Okay. What did you tell her that she was gonna do? 
DOBBS: I told her the same thing. I told her, you know, this guy 
Jeffrey—she came to me saying she needed money, da da da. 
I basically told her about it. She was like, urn, you know, 
"What do you have to do?" I told her. I was like, "The more 
57 
DOBBS: The more she'd 
RECAREY: The more sh 
DOBBS: Yeah. 
RECAREY: So, she had i 
DOBBS: Urn, I don't kni 
ent stories on that. 
But when I was first 
who introduced me 
slept with him and r 
or secretary—told 
plays around with ti 
RECAREY: So, when yo 
happened between y 
DOBBS: Nothing. I woul 
RECAREY: Okay. Did h( 
DOBBS: I wouldn't say he 
pointed. But I'm not-
let him—I let him lo 
the question for him. 
kind of down-promoi 
bring girls." But as far 
RECAREY: Okay. How 
aside from [redacted 
DOBBS: Oh. Urn. A lot. 
RECAREY: A lot? 
DOBBS: Urn, let's see, th 
RECAREY: And all thest 
DOBBS: Every one of th( 
JAMES PATTERSON 
you do, the more you make. That's it. In order to make money, 
you're gonna have to go up there. You're gonna take your 
clothes off. But the more you do, is the more you make." She 
walked out of there with $300. So she obviously and evi-
dently let him do a little more. Plus, on our way home, she 
kinda told me what she did. 
RECAREY: Which was? Give the massage.... 
DOBBS: She gave the massage, and she basically let him, like, 
touch her, down there. Basically. 
RECAREY: Did he touch her with his hands? 
DOBBS: All with his hands. And then he brought out the mas-
sager. From what she told me. 
RECAREY: How old were you when you were approached to see 
Jeffrey? 
DOBBS: Um, I think I was seventeen? 
RECAREY: Seventeen. 
DOBBS: Sixteen or seventeen. 
RECAREY: Okay. When was the last time you talked to him? 
DOBBS: It's been a while. I can honestly say it's probably been 
about close to a year. About a year. I actually stopped work-
ing for him. 
RECAREY: Who was the last girl you brought over? 
DOBBS: The last girl I brought over was [redacted[.... 
RECAREY: Okay. You got paid two hundred bucks for taking her 
over? 
DOBBS: Yes. 
RECAREY: Okay. [Redacted] knew... 
DOBBS: She knew everything. 
RECAREY: That she'd have to massage him, and the more she did-
58 
TERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
aat's it. In order to make money, 
there. You're gonna take your 
do, is the more you make." She 
So she obviously and evi-
re. Plus, on our way home, she 
massage.... 
and she basically let him, like, 
ally. 
.h his hands? 
.d then he brought out the mas-
e. 
Alen you were approached to see 
ateen? 
Le last time you talked to him? 
n honestly say it's probably been 
it a year. I actually stopped work-
;irl you brought over? 
over was [redacted]. 
. two hundred bucks for taking her 
knew... 
aassage him, and the more she did 
58 
DOBBS: The more she'd make. 
RECAREY: The more she got paid. 
DOBBS: Yeah. 
RECAREY: So, she had intercourse with him. 
DOBBS: Urn, I don't know about the intercourse. I heard differ-
ent stories on that. I've never asked him "Oh, you know ..." 
But when I was first introduced to him, my friend [redacted] 
who introduced me to him, told me that she knew a girl who 
slept with him and made $1,000. But from what his intern—
or secretary—told me, is that he doesn't do that. He just 
plays around with them. So I heard two different stories. 
RECAREY: So, when you went and you massaged him, nothing 
happened between you two. 
DOBBS: Nothing. I wouldn't let him. 
RECAREY: Okay. Did he become forceful? Did he get upset? 
DOBBS: I wouldn't say he became upset. I think he was a little disap-
pointed. But I'm not—I didn't care. I knew I was getting paid. I 
let him—I let him look, but I never let him touch. It was out of 
the question for him. And I think that's pretty much why he just, 
kind of down-promoted me? He was just kind of like, "You can 
bring girls." But as far as working, you know—
RECAREY: Okay. How many girls have you brought to him, 
aside from [redacted]? 
DOBBS: Oh. Urn. A lot. 
RECAREY: A lot? 
DOBBS: Um, let's see, there's [several redacted names].... 
RECAREY: And all these girls knew what they had to do? 
DOBBS: Every one of them. 
59 
JAMES PATTERSON 
ti 
RECAREY: How long have you been working for him? 
DOBBS: Um ...I probably worked for him for a year. 
RECAREY: Okay. And out of all these girls... 
DOBBS: Those were all the girls I brought. But you have to 
remember, those girls brought other girls, too. 
RECAREY: Oh, okay. 
DOBBS: So it's like—it's like a train. It's like, I introduced him to 
all my friends, and then ... it goes on and on, like that 
RECAREY: Okay.... [Redacted] being fourteen or fifteen at the 
time—' think [redacted] was fourteen when this happened 
who else was underage? Out of all these? 
DOBBS: Underage, what do you mean? 
RECAREY: Under eighteen. 
DOBBS: Under eighteen? All of 'ern 
RECAREY: All of them? 
DOBBS: All of them.... 
RECAREY: Okay. Did Jeff know anybody's real true age? Or he 
didn't care. 
DOBBS: I don't think he cared. He told me the younger the better. 
RECAREY: The younger the better. All right. 
DOBBS: Pretty much. That's how it worked. He didn't—let me 
just put it this way: I tried to bring him a woman who was 
twenty-three, and he didn't really like it. 
RECAREY: Didn't go for it. 
DOBBS: It's not that he didn't go for it. He just didn't care for it. 
And he likes the girls that [are] between the ages of, like, 
eighteen and twenty.... But some of them, I think, lie about 
their age. I know that when 1 started off young, I think he 
knew better [than] to believe me. I think he knew that I was 
60 
younger—like, sev 
teen. Most of those 
RECAREY: Let's talk at 
DOBBS: Okay. 
RECAREY: [Mary] at tl 
DOBBS: Mm-hmm. 
RECAREY: Okay. She 
she know you work 
DOBBS: I told her. 
RECAREY: You had tol 
DOBBS: Mm-hmm. 
RECAREY: Did you tell 
DOBBS: She knew ever 
RECAREY: Okay. So sh 
some kind of—
DOBBS: Contact. Prett) 
what his expectatio 
girls that go up thei 
I was like, "If you 
you go in that room 
know he was goin4 
right now, he's exp€ 
RECAREY: Basically, tt 
DOBBS: Fondling — 
RECAREY: Fondling — 
DOBBS: Or whatever. A 
Just like, "Just rem 
make. But that's—I 
brought up, told he] 
FILTHY RICH 
EERSON 
en working for him? 
for him for a year. 
aese girls... 
s I brought. But you have to 
t other girls, too. 
tin. It's like, I introduced him to 
goes on and on, like that. 
being fourteen or fifteen at the 
fourteen when this happened—
of all these? 
mean? 
em. 
v anybody's real true age? Or he 
le told me the younger the better. 
tter. All right. 
ow it worked. He didn't—let me 
to bring him a woman who was 
• really like it. 
go for it. He just didn't care for it. 
tt [are] between the ages of, like, 
it some of them, I think, lie about 
en I started off young, I think he 
,.ve me. I think he knew that I was 
60 
younger—like, seventeen—but I told him I was, like, eigh-
teen. Most of those girls lie when they go in there. 
RECAREY: Let's talk about [Mary] for a minute. 
DOBBS: Okay. 
RECAREY: [Mary] at the time was dating your cousin, right? 
DOBBS: Mm-hmm. 
RECAREY: Okay. She told you she needed to make money. Did 
she know you worked for Jeffrey? 
DOBBS: I told her. 
RECAREY: You had told her you worked for Jeffrey. 
DOBBS: Mm-hmm. 
RECAREY: Did you tell her what it entailed? So she knew that? 
DOBBS: She knew everything before she even agreed to it. 
RECAREY: Okay. So she knew that there was going to have to be 
some kind of—
DOBBS: Contact. Pretty much. Yeah. I told her. I told her exactly 
what his expectations were. I told her what goes on with the 
girls that go up there. I told her—it was like, "It's your call." 
I was like, "If you want to do this, fine. If not, fine. But when 
you go in that room, I don't want to hear you say, 'Oh, I didn't 
know he was going to do all that.' Because I'm telling you 
right now, he's expecting it." 
RECAREY: Basically, this is touching—
DOBBS: Fondling—
RECAREY: Fondling — 
DOBBS: Or whatever. And I told her when she went on her own. 
Just like, "Just remember, the more you do, the more you 
make. But that's—that's up to you." And she asked me, and I 
brought up, told her I wouldn't do more. 
61 
JAMES PATTERSON 
RECAREY: Okay. You made that clear, you wouldn't do more. 
DOBBS: No. Screw that! 
RECAREY: But as far as Mary] is concerned. What did she tell 
you that happened in that room? 
DOBBS: Exact words? If I can recall, when she came downstairs 
from—when she came downstairs, me and her and [redacted 
we all walked out. We got into the car. And I was like, "How 
much did you make?" She's like, "Three hundred dollars." And I 
looked at [Mary] and I just knew right then she did more. 
RECAREY: Than just a massage, right? 
DOBBS: Yeah. And I asked her. I was like, "Well, what'd you do?" 
She's like, "Well, I started giving a massage, and then my 
clothes came off and, you know, he put his fingers inside me. 
And then he brought out the massager." And that's basically 
what she said. 
RECAREY: It's all right. You can talk to me. It's all right. 
DOBBS: It's kind of incredible talking about it, now that I—I 
can't believe I worked for him. 
RECAREY: But it's okay. You know what, we all go through 
things in life, you know what I mean? It's an experience. And 
you can put this experience behind you. 
Do girls that—people that you brought over—how did you 
approach them? That they were going to have to do this... 
Like, if they wanted to work, how did you approach them? 
Say, "Listen, I got this guy in Palm Beach?" 
DOBBS: Urn. .. Two of them were my friends. The others were, 
like, my acquaintances. It was a little more easier talking to 
them about it, 'cause, like, I knew them. 
62 
RECAREY: Take a de 
see you're workir 
can see it, and I d 
DOBBS: I, urn, pretty 
RECAREY: Straight u 
DOBBS: "If you're loo 
down in Palm Be 
have to give him 
Then, if they were 
I'd go into detail 
they told me, "Ye: 
I'd tell them, "01( 
you have to do, th 
RECAREY: Did you te 
from bringing the 
DOBBS: Most part? I 
were open about I 
was making mone 
RECAREY: Okay. Gil 
Gimme two secon 
• • • 
All right, I talked 
FRICK: —Which is NN 
DOBBS: Okay. 
FRICK: Obviously I 
at this point you cl 
You've taken girls 
prostitution. Mon 
those girls was fou 
significant second 
TERSON 
:lear, you wouldn't do more. 
s concerned. What did she tell 
m? 
:all, when she came downstairs 
tairs, me and her and [redacted], 
o the car. And I was like, "How 
e, "Three hundred dollars?' And I 
w right then she did more. 
right? 
was like, "Well, what'd you do?" 
;tying a massage, and then my 
ow, he put his fingers inside me. 
!. massager." And that's basically 
talk to me. It's all right. 
talking about it, now that I—I 
m. 
know what, we all go through 
at I mean? It's an experience. And 
: behind you. 
you brought over —how did you 
were going to have to do this... 
irk, how did you approach them? 
in Palm Beach?" 
/ere my friends. The others were, 
was a little more easier talking to 
I knew them. 
62 
FILTHY RICH 
RECAREY: Take a deep breath. Take a deep breath. 'Cause I can 
see you're working up again. You're working up the tears, I 
can see it, and I don't want to get you like that. 
DOBBS: I, urn, pretty much I just would ask them — 
RECAREY: Straight up? 
DOBBS: "If you're looking for extra money, let me know; this guy 
down in Palm Beach, he's really, really, really wealthy. You 
have to give him a massage." That's all I would tell them. 
Then, if they were interested or told me, "Yes, I want to do it," 
I'd go into detail with them before they'd actually agree. If 
they told me, "Yeah, that sounds good, I'm interested," then 
I'd tell them, "Okay, well I'm gonna let you know, this is what 
you have to do, this is what's gonna go on." 
RECAREY: Did you tell them that you were going to make money 
from bringing them over? Or.—. 
DOBBS: Most part? I believe they knew.... Most of the girls, we 
were open about that. We didn't—they pretty much knew I 
was making money under the table. So... 
RECAREY: Okay. Gimme two seconds. Let me get the soda.... 
Gimme two seconds. 
All right, I talked to my boss a little bit — 
FRICK: —Which is why I'm here. 
DOBBS: Okay. 
FRICK: Obviously I was listening to what you were saying. And 
at this point you clearly implicated yourself on a crime, okay? 
You've taken girls to somebody's house for the purpose of 
prostitution. More importantly, more significantly, one of 
those girls was fourteen at the time, okay? Now that's a pretty 
significant second-degree felony, okay? I'm not going to kid 
63 
JAMES PATTERSON 
you, that is— it's a significant thing, okay? Now, you came 
in, you cooperated with us. The question we have for you 
now is, do you want to continue cooperating with us and try 
and help us make a case against Jeff? 
DOBBS: I don't think that's really going to help me in the long 
run, though. I've already admitted to a second-degree felony, 
right? 
FRICK: Yeah, you have. 
DOBBS: Okay, so there you go. What's going to keep me out of 
trouble? It's not going to keep me out of trouble. I've already 
admitted committing a crime. 
FRICK: I'm not going to argue with that.... 
DOBBS: So basically I just fucked myself. I can go two ways. I 
can agree not to cooperate, which is going to put me at — 
well—now you can use the second-degree felony against me. 
Or you can help and work with it and maybe get myself some 
slack.... 
FRICK: We're still talkin' here. What would the odds be of you 
contacting Jeff at this point? Have you had any contact with 
him at all? 
DOBBS: I have not had any contact — 
FRICK: How about with — 
DOBBS: No, none of 'em. None of 'em.... I had a phone call about 
four or five months ago, and I told my parents. Look, I swear 
to you I'm not anywhere—like, no connection with him at 
all. That's why I pretty much got my number changed. I have 
not made any communication with him. It stopped. 
FRICK: Okay. Well, I mean, that's good. That's good that you 
stopped.... 
64 
This is what we'd 
some of your ex-
Now, the questior 
working for Jeff, i. 
to Jeff? Or can w 
you make a call a 
know, these guys 
everything?" Our 
right? 
RECAREY: With youi 
FRICK: Let me, let 
thing, okay? Then 
leading to the de 
second-degree fel( 
demeanor.... First 
not going to take y 
DOBBS: Not today. 
FRICK: Well, you're — 
ate and if we can-
not—that's not ur 
would do is if we I 
meanor, we'd give 
in, you know." 
RECAREY: You sign it 
FRICK: That's our pr 
forthright with us, 
RECAREY: Very truth. 
FRICK: Do you want I 
deal with it, or do• 
FILTHY RICH 
rERSON 
t thing, okay? Now, you came 
The question we have for you 
ue cooperating with us and try 
1st Jeff? 
y going to help me in the long 
Lilted to a second-degree felony, 
What's going to keep me out of 
p me out of trouble. I've already 
ith that.... 
ed myself. I can go two ways. I 
which is going to put me at — 
second-degree felony against me. 
ith it and maybe get myself some 
What would the odds be of you 
? Have you had any contact with 
"act—
of 'em.... I had a phone call about 
d I told my parents. Look, I swear 
—like, no connection with him at 
ch got my number changed. I have 
lion with him. It stopped. 
that's good. That's good that you 
64 
This is what we'd like to do: We would like to reach out to 
some of your ex-friends and [unintelligible] talk to them. 
Now, the question is, do we think that they are currently still 
working for Jeff, in which case they would make a phone call 
to Jeff? Or can we just kinda show up and, you know, have 
you make a call as we're standing outside and say: "Hey, you 
know, these guys wanna talk to you, and I've already told 'ern 
everything?" Our goal is to make a better case against Jeff, all 
right? 
RECAREY: With your cooperation. 
FRICK: Let me, let me get back to—past--the cooperation 
thing, okay? There are lesser charges that can easily be filed: 
leading to the delinquency of a minor, as compared to a 
second-degree felony. You know what I mean? That's a mis-
demeanor.... First of all, I'll tell you straight up, okay, we're 
not going to take you to jail today.... 
DOBBS: Not today. 
FRICK: Well, you're—And here's the other thing: If you cooper-
ate and if we can—If you cooperate, whether we pull it off or 
not— that's not up to you, that's up to us, okay? So what we 
would do is if we ended up charging you with like a misde-
meanor, we'd give you a call, we'd say: "Hey, you gotta come 
in, you know." 
RECAREY: You sign it.... 
FRICK: That's our preference. You come in, you've been very 
forthright with us, you've been very up front — 
RECAREY: Very truthful. 
FRICK: Do you want us to call your parents, or do you want to 
deal with it, or do you —As far as we're concerned you're an 
65 
JAMES PATTERSON 
adult, okay? You're nineteen. You do what you do. You know, 
we can drop you off at the end of the block if you'd like. Or 
we can cushion the blow beyond what—but again, you're 
helping us at this point. We've been pretty forthright with 
you on what is going on, our options for your future. And 
what we'd like you to do obviously is make a couple of calls 
with us this evening to talk to a couple of your, you know, 
these other girls. 
DOBBS: I'm not really on a ...Me and my parents really don't get 
along right now.. 
FRICK: So you'd prefer that — 
DOBBS: If they found out that I was—If they found out that I 
was into some other stuff.... I'm actually stripping now.... So 
they're not exactly happy with me at the moment, and I don't 
want to do anything that's going to piss 'ern off even 
furthermore. 
Michael Reiter: Oc 
Chief Reiter sifts 
underage girls - 
cured for Epste 
on El Brillo. An arre 
caught with a dime bo 
She'd told Detectiv 
very much like a rape 
Soon Reiter will a5 
more footwork to do, 
his office. 
Later that day, De 
arrive at the home of 
* Jenny's, Francine's, an( 
dialogue have been cha 
TERSON 
fou do what you do. You know, 
id of the block if you'd like. Or 
yond what—but again, you're 
've been pretty forthright with 
r options for your future. And 
iously is make a couple of calls 
to a couple of your, you know, 
and my parents really don't get 
I was they found out that I 
I'm actually stripping now.. .. So 
.th me at the moment, and I don't 
t's going to piss 'em off even 
66 
CHAPTER IS 
Michael Reiter: October 3, 2005 
Chief Reiter sifts through the evidence: information about 
underage girls—six of them—whom Wendy Dobbs pro-
cured for Epstein. Phone numbers pulled from the trash 
on El Brillo. An arrest report for Alison, the girl who'd been 
caught with a dime bag of weed. 
She'd told Detective Recarey about an encounter that sounded 
very much like a rape. 
Soon Reiter will ask a judge for a warrant. But not yet. There's 
more footwork to do, and Reiter calls Detective Joe Recarey into 
his office. 
Later that day, Detective Recarey and Sergeant George Frick 
arrive at the home of a girl named Jenny.* An older woman greets 
* Jenny's, Francine's, and Kristina's names, some identifying details, and 
dialogue have been changed. 
67 
JAMES PATTERSON 
them at the front door and invites them inside. She introduces 
them to her husband and daughter. Jenny is sixteen years old. 
Sitting down at the dining room table, they see that she's ner-
vous. In between biting her lip and fidgeting, she tells them that 
yes, she's been to Jeffrey Epstein's house. 
Wendy took her there once. But nothing much happened. 
She met Epstein's chef and spent some time in the kitchen is all. 
Then she left. 
"I get what you're asking," she says. "But really, I just want to 
put the whole thing behind me." 
"Okay," the officers tell her. "You have our numbers. But 
Jenny, if you remember anything else, you'll find that we're very 
good listeners." 
One down. Five to go. 
Detective Recarey and Detective Michael Dawson have better 
luck the next day with Francine, a girl who tells them that a year 
earlier, Wendy Dobbs—someone she knew from high school—
drove her to the house on El Brillo Way. 
Francine would have been seventeen at the time. 
Now she's willing to make a sworn statement. The officers 
noted: 
She was told she could make money working for Jeff. She was 
told she would have to provide a massage for Jeff. . She was 
brought to the kitchen area by (Dobbs]. They met with the 
house chef who was already in the Kitchen area. Francine 
stated [Wendy] would wait for her in the kitchen. 
Just as she did wit 
Francine upstairs and 
the room, wearing onl 
She kept her clothi 
sometime during th, 
and pulled her clos, 
uncomfortable by ti 
sion of the massage 
"Do you have any 
cers ask. 
"No," says Francine 
But she does have c 
Sarah's been callirq 
It could mean any r 
that Epstein's caught IN 
he's doing something 
responsibility. This tr( 
day, they get one more 
her parents around she 
It turns out that Jenny's 
And, it turns out, 
kitchen. Without her p 
talk about it. 
The first time she'd 
says, Epstein had tried 
FILTHY RICH 
FERSON 
:s them inside. She introduces 
her. Jenny is sixteen years old. 
table, they see that she's ner-
id fidgeting, she tells them that 
house. 
But nothing much happened. 
some time in the kitchen is all. 
e says. "But really, I just want to 
"You have our numbers. But 
g else, you'll find that we're very 
ve Michael Dawson have better 
a girl who tells them that a year 
ne she knew from high school — 
illo Way. 
3eventeen at the time. 
a sworn statement. The officers 
money working for Jeff. She was 
de a massage for Jeff. . . . She was 
by (Dobbs]. They met with the 
ly in the Kitchen area. Francine 
for her in the kitchen. 
68 
Just as she did with Mary, a woman named Sarah had taken 
Francine upstairs and into a bedroom. Then Epstein had entered 
the room, wearing only a towel. 
She kept her clothes on during the massage. She advised 
sometime during the massage, Epstein grabbed her buttocks 
and pulled her close to him. Francine said she was [made] 
uncomfortable by the incident involving Jeff. At the conclu-
sion of the massage she was paid $200.00 for the massage. 
"Do you have any formal training in massages?" the offi-
cers ask. 
"No," says Francine. 
But she does have one more thing to tell them. 
Sarah's been calling Francine's cell phone. 
It could mean any number of things. The police know already 
that Epstein's caught wind of their investigation. Now it appears 
he's doing something about it, or at least he's delegating the 
responsibility. This troubles the cops. But then, on that same 
day, they get one more break: Jenny calls and says that without 
her parents around she's willing to make a sworn statement. 
It turns out that Jenny's visited with Epstein several times. 
And, it turns out, she'd done much more than sit in the 
kitchen. Without her parents around, she's much more willing to 
talk about it. 
The first time she'd gone to the house on El Brill° Way, she 
says, Epstein had tried to take off her shirt. She'd become upset, 
69 
JAMES PATTERSON 
and this had led to a fight— a "verbal disagreement" —with 
Epstein. • 
She'd left without getting paid. Gone down to the kitchen 
and told Wendy, "Let's go!" 
"If you're uncomfortable," Wendy had told her, "tell him to 
stop, and he will." 
On the other hand, Wendy had also told her, "The more you 
do, the more you get paid." 
A few weeks later, she agreed to return to the house on El 
Brillo. 
Once again Sarah had taken Jenny upstairs and into the mas-
ter bedroom. Sarah had set up the massage table, laid out the oils 
that Jenny would use. 
Then Epstein had entered the room wearing only a towel. 
Jenny had been wearing tight jeans. She had a tight belt on. 
She kept the jeans on, though Epstein still made a grab for her 
buttocks. Then he rolled onto his back and grabbed for her 
breasts. Jenny became upset yet again. But this time, she was 
paid two hundred dollars before leaving. She never did go back 
to the house. But, like Francine, she has one more thing to tell 
the detectives. 
Another girl from her high school had been there on the day 
of her second visit with Epstein. Kristina. And later, Kristina 
told Jenny that she also had "a problem" with Epstein. 
Girls seemed to be turning up all the time. And the detec-
tives were just getting started. 
One girl leads Chief Reiter's team to another. And every time, 
they hear the same story. The girls are approached by Wendy 
70 
A 
1 
Dobbs. They drive ove: 
the kitchen—maybe sc 
they're walked upstair 
towel. Sometimes witl; 
mend their friends, anC 
None of the girls cc 
been trained as a mass1 
become a licensed mas: 
eighteen years old, at 
or GED. 
7ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
"verbal disagreement" —with 
d. Gone down to the kitchen 
.ndy had told her, "tell him to 
ad also told her, "The more you 
d to return to the house on El 
•enny upstairs and into the mas-
e massage table, laid out the oils 
e room wearing only a towel. 
:it jeans. She had a tight belt on. 
Epstein still made a grab for her 
his back and grabbed for her 
et again. But this time, she was 
-e leaving. She never did go back 
e, she has one more thing to tell 
school had been there on the day 
An. Kristina. And later, Kristina 
problem" with Epstein. 
g up all the time. And the detec-
team to another. And every time, 
Le girls are approached by Wendy 
70 
Dobbs. They drive over to Epstein's house. After a short wait in 
the kitchen—maybe some milk and cereal, if they feel hungry—
they're walked upstairs. Epstein's there, waiting, wearing his 
towel. Sometimes with a vibrator. Sometimes the girls recom-
mend their friends, and for this they receive a commission. 
None of the girls comes from money. And none of them has 
been trained as a masseuse. Then again, how could they be? To 
become a licensed massage apprentice in Florida, you need to be 
eighteen years old, at least, and have a high school diploma 
or GED. 
She considered Epstei 
further and further ur 
telling him she had a I 
CHAPTER 16 
Cynthia: October 6, 2005 
Three days after meeting with Francine, the police drive to 
Boca Raton. They're there to see Cynthia Selleck, who's 
eighteen years old.* But according to the probable-cause 
affidavit that the Palm Beach PD is preparing in order to obtain 
an arrest warrant for Epstein, Cynthia was sixteen when Wendy 
Dobbs first took her to meet him. 
During a sworn taped statement, she tells the police that 
she'd met Wendy at her high school. She says that Wendy had 
recruited her and prepped her for her first visit to Epstein's 
house. And she says she'd ended up going to the house "a lot of 
times to provide massages over the past two years." The affidavit 
.-1 
--
states: 
* Cynthia SeHeck's name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been 
changed. 
72 
Only recently, Cynt 
clothes in the course of 
"Jeff would try to get 
sage," she tells the cops. 
Still, Sarah had Cyi 
would call whenever E1 
appointment for "work." 
Each time she went, . 
door area. She woulo 
massage table. [Cynt, 
questions about hers4 
player and would be al 
The cops want to kno 
[Cynthia] stated Epstei 
massage she provided 1 
October 1. 
That's less than a wee 
What the cops know i 
What they're about to 
FILTHY RICH 
She considered Epstein a pervert, and he kept pushing to go 
further and further until [Cynthia] explained she would keep 
telling him she had a boyfriend. 
CHAPTER 16 
rith Francine, the police drive to 
re to see Cynthia Selleck, who's 
according to the probable-cause 
) is preparing in order to obtain 
ynthia was sixteen when Wendy 
El. 
ement, she tells the police that 
chool. She says that Wendy had 
T for her first visit to Epstein's 
:d up going to the house "a lot of 
the past two years." The affidavit 
itifying details, and dialogue have been 
72 
Only recently, Cynthia says, did she begin to remove her 
clothes in the course of giving Epstein massages. 
"Jeff would try to get away with more and more on each mas-
sage," she tells the cops. 
Still, Sarah had Cynthia's cell phone number, and Sarah 
would call whenever Epstein was in Palm Beach to make an 
appointment for "work." 
Each time she went, Sarah would meet her at the kitchen 
door area. She would bring her upstairs and prepare the 
massage table. [Cynthia] advised Epstein would ask her 
questions about herself Epstein knew she was a soccer 
player and would be attending [a nearby] university. 
The cops want to know: Did Epstein know her real age? 
[Cynthia] stated Epstein did and didn't care. The most recent 
massage she provided was on October 1, 2005. 
October 1. 
That's less than a week ago. 
What the cops know now is that Epstein's still at it. 
What they're about to learn seals Epstein's fate. 
73 
CHAPTER 17 
Alison: October ii, 2005 
After speaking with Cynthia, Detectives Recarey and Daw-
son meet up, once again, with Alison. It's been exactly one 
month since her arrest, and once again, she's willing to talk. 
They have no trouble obtaining her sworn taped statement. 
Alison is eighteen, but she's been going to Epstein's house 
since 2002. Things got off to a slow start, she says. She received 
two hundred dollars for her first session, during which she had 
her bra off but her underwear on. Still, at the end of the session, 
Epstein had asked for her number. 
Then the sessions got heavier. Much heavier, as Detective Recarey 
already knew. [Alison] stated that during her many visits a routine was 
established between her and Epstein, he wrote in his report. 
She would enter the house and get naked in the bedroom. She 
would then start with a back massage. Epstein would roll on 
74 
to his back and allow he 
stated Epstein would the 
the same time would ii 
masturbate her with his 
[Alison] explained 1 
until he ejaculated. He 
sager on her vagina unti 
that during her frequen 
age, [and Alison] stated 
not to tell anyone her re 
escalated within the how, 
[Alison] to have interco 
Marcinhova [sic. 1. [Alisor 
using strap on dildos, 
devices that Epstein had 
them have intercourse ( 
ally, Epstein would then 
intercourse and provide 
cinkova. This occurred d 
years of age. 
[Alison] advised thi.! 
years. The routine becc 
assistant Sarah would tel 
in the Town of Palm Be( 
for her to visit and won. 
new was introduced, ad( 
offered for [Alison] to all( 
sented to perform all the. 
was an understanding wi 
tion would occur with 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 17 
hia, Detectives Recarey and Daw-
, with Alison. It's been exactly one 
tnd once again, she's willing to talk. 
her sworn taped statement. 
e's been going to Epstein's house 
slow start, she says. She received 
Lrst session, during which she had 
on. Still, at the end of the session, 
['her. 
r. Much heavier, as Detective Recarey 
at during her many visits a routine was 
em, he wrote in his report. 
and get naked in the bedroom. She 
ch massage. Epstein would roll on 
74 
to his back and allow her to massage his chest area. [Alison] 
stated Epstein would then begin to masturbate himself and at 
the same time would insert his fingers in her vagina and 
masturbate her with his fingers. 
[Alison] explained Epstein would continue this process 
until he ejaculated. He would then utilize a vibrator/mas-
sager on her vagina until [Alison] climaxed. [Alison] advised 
that during her frequent visits, Epstein asked for her real 
age, [and Alison] stated she was sixteen. Epstein advised her 
not to tell anyone her real age. [Alison] advised that things 
escalated within the home as Epstein would instruct and pay 
[Alison] to have intercourse with his female friend, Nada 
Marcinkova [sic]. [Alison] explained the intercourse included 
using strap on dildos, large rubber penisIsic] and other 
devices that Epstein had at his disposal. Epstein would watch 
them have intercourse and masturbate himself. Occasion-
ally, Epstein would then join in during the female on female 
intercourse and provide oral sex to both [Alison] and Mar-
cinkova. This occurred during the time [Alison] was sixteen 
years of age. 
[Alison] advised this continued to escalate during two 
years. The routine became familiar to [Alison]. Epstein's 
assistant Sarah would telephone her every time Epstein was 
in the Town of Palm Beach and would place appointments 
for her to visit and work for Epstein. Each time something 
new was introduced, additional monies were produced and 
offered for [Alison] to allow the acts to happen. [Alison] con-
sented to perform all these acts but was adamant that there 
was an understanding with Epstein that no vaginal penetra-
tion would occur with his penis. [Alison] explained that 
75 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Epstein's penis was deformed. [She] explained that his penis 
was oval shaped. [She] claimed when Epstein's penis was 
erect, it was thick toward the bottom but was thin and small 
toward the head portion. [She] called Epstein's penis 
"egg-shaped." [She] stated Epstein would photograph Mar-
cinkova and her naked and having sex and proudly display 
the photographs within the home. [Alison] stated during one 
visit to Epstein's house in which she provided a massage to 
Epstein, his female friend, Nada [sic] Marcinkova, was also 
present. [Alison] provided the massage in which Marcinkova 
and her would fondle each other's breasts and kiss for Epstein 
to enjoy. Towards the end of this massage, Epstein grabbed 
[Alison] and turned her over onto her stomach on the mas-
sage table and forcibly inserted his penis into her vagina: 
[Alison] stated Epstein began to pump his penis in her 
vagina. [She] became upset over this. She said her head was 
being held against the table forcibly, as he continued to pump 
inside her. She screamed "No!" and Epstein stopped. She told 
him that she did not want to have his penis inside of her. 
Epstein did not ejaculate inside of her and apologized for his 
actions and subsequently paid her a thousand dollars for 
that visit. [Alison] stated she knows he still displays her pho-
tographs through out the house. 
What happened to Mary had been bad enough. But what hap-
pened to Alison was on a whole other level. She'd been caught 
with some pot, sure. But that was hardly a felony offense. It didn't 
make her a liar. And, in important respects, Alison's statement 
had aligned with Mary's and with statements they'd been given 
76 
by other girls, including 
Probably not. Almost ce 
also in line with what di 
Detective Recarey az 
on the investigation that 
It was enough, Reit( 
search warrant. 
CERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ihe] explained that his penis 
d when Epstein's penis was 
Atom but was thin and small 
;he] called Epstein's penis 
tein would photograph Mar-
ving sex and proudly display 
qe. [Alison] stated during one 
:h she provided a massage to 
la [sic] Marcinkova, was also 
massage in which Marcinkova 
breasts and kiss for Epstein 
:his massage, Epstein grabbed 
onto her stomach on the mas-
ted his penis into her vagina: 
m to pump his penis in her 
ver this. She said her head was 
rcibly, as he continued to pump 
1" and Epstein stopped. She told 
o have his penis inside of her. 
de of her and apologized for his 
lid her a thousand dollars for 
knows he still displays her pho-
ise. 
been bad enough. But what hap-
ole other level. She'd been caught 
vas hardly a felony offense. It didn't 
Drtant respects, Alison's statement 
with statements they'd been given 
76 
by other girls, including Wendy Dobbs. Could Wendy be trusted? 
Probably not. Almost certainly not. But again, what she said was 
also in line with what the police had heard from other girls. 
Detective Recarey and his team had done exceptional work 
on the investigation that Officer Pagan had started. 
It was enough, Reiter decided, to cause a judge to issue a 
search warrant. 
77 
CHAPTER 18 
Michael Reiter: October 2005 
0 n October 20, Palm Beach police officers execute a search 
warrant, signed by Judge Laura Johnson, at Jeffrey Epstein's 
home on El Brillo Way. Inside the house, an employee is 
on the phone with Epstein. They ask him, politely, to hang up. 
Then, guns drawn, they walk up the winding stairs to the home's 
second story. 
Detective Recarey remains outside and reads the warrant, out 
loud, to Epstein's houseman while another officer videotapes them. 
"This is your copy," Recarey says as he hands over the war-
rant. "When we are concluded, I will leave a list of what items 
we've taken, okay? I would ask that you don't answer your tele-
phone. I know that the gentleman was having a conversation 
with Mr. Epstein at the time. So I'm sure he's trying to call and 
find out what's going on. He will be told what was going on as 
soon as we're done. Okay?" 
78 
Inside the house, del 
that Mary and other gir 
naked young girls—in sc 
Epstein. They also find n 
names, dates, and numbe 
Sometimes there are 
hers: "I have girls for him 
These notes are signe 
Epstein's house has ; 
the bedrooms look alma 
off Epstein's bedroom, ti 
holding strange machin( 
find in a dermatologist's ( 
In a wood-colored ai 
bottle of peach-flavored 
soaps shaped like penis( 
more Joy Jelly, and boxes 
The officers find stacl 
and other B-list movies. 
They also find receipi 
SlaveCraft: Roadmaps for 
On the first floor, det 
hidden in clocks. On th 
photographs of Wendy 
come from the camera in 
The officers know wl 
install them—in 2004, 
had stolen a gun and $: 
investigated that case. 
man, Juan Alessi, for the 
CHAPTER 18 
05 
:h police officers execute a search 
Laura Johnson, at Jeffrey Epstein's 
Inside the house, an employee is 
.ey ask him, politely, to hang up. 
p the winding stairs to the home's 
putside and reads the warrant, out 
ile another officer videotapes them. 
says as he hands over the war-
I will leave a list of what items 
k that you don't answer your tele-
Leman was having a conversation 
So I'm sure he's trying to call and 
will be told what was going on as 
78 
FILTHY RICH 
Inside the house, detectives see the pink-and-green couch 
that Mary and other girls had described. They see photos of 
naked young girls—in some cases, girls they've spoken to about 
Epstein. They also find message pads on which are written first 
names, dates, and numbers for the girls. 
Sometimes there are notes to go with the names and num-
bers: "I have girls for him." Or "I have 2 girls for him." 
These notes are signed by one Sarah Kellen. 
Epstein's house has a strangely antiseptic quality. Some of 
the bedrooms look almost like doctors' offices. In the bathroom 
off Epstein's bedroom, there's a massage table as well as stands 
holding strange machines, which looked like something you'd 
find in a dermatologist's office. 
In a wood-colored armoire beside Epstein's bed, they see a 
bottle of peach-flavored Joy Jelly. In the bathroom, there are 
soaps shaped like penises and vaginas, bottles of Mango Mist, 
more Joy Jelly, and boxes of tampons. 
The officers find stacks of UFC videos and DVDs of Rock Star 
and other B-list movies. 
They also find receipts for books bought on Amazon, such as 
SlaveCraft: Roadmaps for Erotic Servitude. 
On the first floor, detectives are drawn to two secret cameras 
hidden in clocks. On the computer hard drive, they see several 
photographs of Wendy and other girls. These images appear to 
come from the camera inside the clock behind Epstein's desk. 
The officers know where the cameras are because they helped 
install them—in 2004, when Epstein complained that someone 
had stolen a gun and $2,700 from him. Detective Recarey had 
investigated that case. But before he could arrest Epstein's handy-
man, Juan Alessi, for the theft, Epstein contacted a captain in the 
79 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Palm Beach PD and prevailed upon him to have the investigation 
called off. 
Epstein had met Alessi at a luncheonette, he explained, and 
Alessi had agreed to pay back the money. At the time, it made no 
sense to prosecute: Epstein was a busy man. He was going to get 
his money. But he did invite the police into his home to install 
the cameras. This was a service that the Palm Beach PD provided 
(though Epstein would be the only one with access to the foot-
age). But while they were there, the police had noticed a group of 
attractive young women who seemed to be camped out at the 
house. 
The group included Sarah Kellen and Nadia Marcinkova. 
None of the girls was a relative of Epstein— that fact had 
caught the cops' attention. 
And now, as the search continues, the cops see photographs 
of the very same girls. 
On Epstein's desk, the officers find Alison's high school 
transcript. 
The thing is, the detectives can't shake the feeling that the 
Epstein house has been tidied up for their arrival. Shelves look 
as though they've been emptied, and several photographs appear 
to have been removed from the walls. 
"[Judging] by the condition of the place to be searched," 
Chief Reiter will say in his deposition for B.B. vs. Epstein, "some-
one probably had cleaned it up a bit." 
Maybe there's nothing too surprising about this. After all, 
Reiter's team knows that Epstein's gotten wind of their investiga-
tion. What is surprising is that for a house that's been scrubbed, 
there's so much left lying around. 
In fact, the oddest thing about the search is that someone,* 
80 
appears to have gone 
nating materials, but 
It was as if the th 
ister as wrong. 
There's another feelii 
that they themselves 
First Reiter hears 
yers have hired prii 
checks. 
A public-records 
Reiter's own records. 
Detective Recare) 
and that his trash ha. 
In his entire car( 
that Reiter's seen or 
ing his investigators. 
ey's doing great wonl 
and for good reason 
Right now, more vic. 
now that the warra) 
interviewing Epstein 
FILTHY RICH 
ERSON 
him to have the investigation 
icheonette, he explained, and 
noney. At the time, it made no 
3u5y man. He was going to get 
)olice into his home to install 
at the Palm Beach PD provided 
ly one with access to the foot-
Le police had noticed a group of 
rned to be camped out at the 
Lien and Nadia Marcinkova. 
tive of Epstein— that fact had 
.nues, the cops see photographs 
.cers find Alison's high school 
can't shake the feeling that the 
ap for their arrival. Shelves look 
, and several photographs appear 
walls. 
,n of the place to be searched," 
psition for B.B. vs. Epstein, "some-
a bit." 
surprising about this. After all, 
in's gotten wind of their investiga-
for a house that's been scrubbed, 
ad. 
about the search is that someone 
80 
appears to have gone through the house, gotten rid of incrimi-
nating materials, but left many clues behind. 
It was as if the things the police were seeing didn't even reg-
ister as wrong. 
There's another feeling the cops can't shake: the nagging sense 
that they themselves are being investigated and tailed. 
First Reiter hears through the grapevine that Epstein's law-
yers have hired private investigators to perform background 
checks. 
A public-records demand has been filed in an effort to obtain 
Reiter's own records. 
Detective Recarey tells Reiter that he, too, is being surveilled 
and that his trash has been picked through. 
In his entire career as a police officer, this is the first time 
that Reiter's seen or heard of such a thing: a suspect investigat-
ing his investigators. But for the moment, he puts it aside. Recar-
ey's doing great work on the investigation. He's deeply invested, 
and for good reason: the detective's got four kids of his own. 
Right now, more victims are coming out of the woodwork. And 
now that the warrant's been executed, there's no downside to 
interviewing Epstein's servants. 
81 
CHAPTER 19 
Detective Recarey, Probable-Cause Affidavit: 
May 2006 
On November 21, 2005 I interviewed Jose [sic] Alessi, a for-
mer houseman for Jeffrey Epstein. Alessi stated he was 
employed for eleven years with Mr. Epstein, from approxi-
mately 1993 through 2004. Alessi stated he was the house 
manager, driver and house maintenance person. It was his 
responsibility to prepare the house for Epstein's arrival. 
When asked about cooks or assistants, Alessi stated they 
traveled with Epstein on his private plane. I asked Mr. Alessi 
about the massages that have occurred at. Epstein's home. 
Alessi stated Epstein receives three massages a day. Each 
masseuse that visited the house was different. Alessi stated 
that towards the end of his employment, the masseuses were 
younger and younger. When asked how young, Mr. Alessi 
stated they appeared to be sixteen or seventeen years of age 
82 
at the most. The m( 
or bathroom. He kr 
sage tables. I asked 
massage. Alessi sta 
of his employment 
sager/vibrator and 
sink after the mass( 
almost always have 
On January 4, 
man, Mr. Alfredo I 
ment, Mr. Rodrigu 
Epstein for approxii 
through May of 20C 
included being the b 
run errands for Ep 
asked Rodriguez 
Rodriguez stated E, 
Epstein would have 
massage in the aft 
Rodriguez stated h( 
and make them co 
Epstein would meet 
masseuses would or 
kitchen area and of) 
would then be encou 
They would be taker 
Rodriguez if any of 
Rodriguez stated th 
too young to be mass 
direction, he deliver, 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 19 
-Cause Affidavit: 
-viewed Jose [sic] Alessi, a for-
42stein. Alessi stated he was 
th Mr. Epstein, from approxi-
Oessi stated he was the house 
laintenance person. It was his 
e house for Epstein's arrival. 
assistants, Alessi stated they 
Private plane. I asked Mr. Alessi 
ye occurred at Epstein's home. 
three massages a day. Each 
luse was different. Alessi stated 
mployment, the masseuses were 
ri asked how young, Mr. Alessi 
ixteen or seventeen years of age 
82 
at the most. The massages would occur in Epstein's bedroom 
or bathroom. He knew this because he often set up the mas-
sage tables. I asked if there were things going on other than a 
massage. Alessi stated that there were times towards the end 
of his employment that he would have to wash off a mas-
sager/vibrator and a long rubber penis, which were in the 
sink after the massage. Additionally, he stated the bed would 
almost always have to be made after the massage. 
On January 4, 2006 I interviewed another former house-
man, Mr. Alfredo Rodriguez. During a sworn taped state-
ment, Mr. Rodriguez stated he was employed by Jeffrey 
Epstein for approximately six months, from November 2004 
through May of 2005. His responsibilities as house manager 
included being the butler, chauffeur, chef, houseman [and to] 
run errands for Epstein and provide for Epstein's guests. I 
asked Rodriguez about masseuses corning to the house. 
Rodriguez stated Epstein would have two massages a day. 
Epstein would have one massage in the morning and one 
massage in the afternoon everyday he was in residence. 
Rodriguez stated he would be informed to expect someone 
and make them comfortable until either Sarah Kellen- or 
Epstein would meet with them. Rodriguez stated once the 
masseuses would arrive, he would allow them entry into the 
kitchen area and offer them something to drink or eat. They 
would then be encountered by either Sarah Kellen or Epstein. 
They would be taken upstairs to provide the massage. I asked 
Rodriguez if any of the masseuses appeared young in age. 
Rodriguez stated the girls that would come appeared to be 
too young to be masseuses. He stated one time under Epstein's 
direction, he delivered a dozen roses to [Mary's high school] 
83 
JAMES PATTERSON 
for one of the girls that came to provide a massage. He knew 
the girls were still in high school and were of high school age. 
I asked Rodriguez about the massages. He felt there was a lot 
more going on than just massages. 
He would often clean Mr. Epstein's bedroom after the 
alleged massages and would discover massagers/vibrators 
and sex toys scattered on the floor. He also said he would 
wipe down the vibrators and sex toys and put them away in 
an armoire. He described the armoire as a small wood 
armoire which was on the wall close to Epstein's bed. On one 
occasion Epstein ordered Rodriguez to go to the Dollar rent a 
car and rent a car for the same girl he brought the roses to, so 
that she could drive her self to Epstein's house without inci-
dent. Rodriguez said the girl always needed rides to and 
from the house. 
Rodriguez produced a green folder which contained doc-
uments, and a note with Mr. Epstein's stationery with direc-
tion to deliver a bucket of roses to (Mary's] High School after 
fa] high school drama performance. . . . 
During the course of the investigation, subpoenas were 
obtained for cell phone and home phone records from several 
victims and witnesses along with the cell phone records of 
Sarah Kellen. An analysis of these records was conducted 
which found numerous telephone calls were made between 
Sarah Kellen and the victims. These records indicate the 
dates the calls were made are consistent with the dates and 
times the victims/witnesses stated they were contacted. Spe-
cifically, the phone records showed Kellen called [Wendy 
Dobbs] during the exact times and dates when [name 
redacted] advised the incident occurred. Kellen also coordi-
84 
nated the encounters 
frame the girls stated 
Pursuant to a 
vate plane records fi 
records show arrivai 
Palm Beach Internati 
pared to the cell phon4 
ison found that all th 
and the victims were 
arrival or during the 
Therefore, as Jeff 
incidents was fifty on 
course either with i 
redacted], who were n 
is sufficient probable 
four counts of Unlawft 
lation of Florida State 
ony. As Epstein, who a 
years of age, did use a 
of [name redacted], a j 
cient probable cause ti 
ous Molestation, in vio 
(5), a second degree fel 
FILTHY RICH 
ERSON 
9rovide a massage. He knew 
and were of high school age. 
;sages. He felt there was a lot 
s. 
Epstein's bedroom after the 
liscover massagers/vibrators 
floor. He also said he would 
toys and put them away in 
armoire as a small wood 
close to Epstein's bed. On one 
guez to go to the Dollar rent a 
girl he brought the roses to, so 
Epstein's house without inci-
always needed rides to and 
en folder which contained doc-
Epstein's stationery with direc-
s to [Mary's] High School after 
nance.... 
investigation, subpoenas were 
9me phone records from several 
with the cell phone records of 
).1 these records was conducted 
phone calls were made between 
ms. These records indicate the 
re consistent with the dates and 
stated they were contacted. Spe-
showed Kellen called (Wendy 
times and dates when (name 
nt occurred. Kellen also coordi-
nated the encounters with [name redacted] during the time 
frame the girls stated they occurred. 
Pursuant to a lawful subpoena I obtained Epstein's pri-
vate plane records for 2005 from Jet Aviation. The plane 
records show arrival and departure of Epstein's plane at 
Palm Beach International airport. These records were com-
pared to the cell phone records of Sarah Kellen. This compar-
ison found that all the phone calls Kellen made to [Dobbs] 
and the victims were made in the days just prior to their 
arrival or during the time Epstein was in Palm Beach. 
Therefore, as Jeffrey Epstein, who at the time of these 
incidents was fifty one years of age, did have vaginal inter-
course either with his penis or digitally with [names 
redacted], who were minors at the time this occurred, there 
is sufficient probable cause to charge Jeffrey Epstein with 
four counts of Unlawful Sexual Activity with a Minor, in vio-
lation of Florida State Statute 794.05(1), a second degree fel-
ony. As Epstein, who at the time of the incident was fifty two 
years of age, did use a vibrator on the external vaginal area 
of [name redacted], a fourteen year old minor, there is suffi-
cient probable cause to charge him with Lewd and Lascivi-
ous Molestation, in violation of Florida State Statute 800.04 
(5), a second degree felony. 
84 85 
PART II 
The Man 
Wit 
