From: David Grosof 
on behalf of David Grosof 
Sent: 1/20/2017 6:28:10 AM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: Your Special Day 
Importance: High 
At 10:13 PM 01/19/17, you wrote: 
all good.A A thx.A A areas of interest,A A A A distribuitionsA in nature. .A A A A 2 
deception.A 3.A sleep . 4.A power. 5 money.A 6 music and the brain. 7 , signal intellignece in the biologocal 
systems 
Excellent alignment with some of my interests or those of people I like and think are smart! 
The rest of the truncated message has been sent. 
1. What's been stimulating as a source of good questions for the "distributions in nature" issue? 
7. "Signal intelligence in biol. systems" seems to cover all of neurophysiology: Jonathan Victor, whom you met 
a few years ago in your office, is powerfully thoughtful on the issues of neural coding. Are there specific 
examples that have stimulated you to better questions or turned your thinking around? 
6. Are you aware of apps that purport to play music to enhance productivity and focus on tasks at hand? My 
buddy Reese Jones has backed that; he has a fascinating set of beliefs and projects around what may soon be 
understood as "consciousness hacking." He's on the board of Singularity University as one of the founders. (His 
father was a pioneer UCSF MD researcher of hallucinogens, I believe!) 
More to come in a day or so. 
Thanks! 
You're up late or you're not so east of my SF location! 
David 
PS How to trade the Trump-GOP demolition of the welfare state, erratic elevation of risks of trade disruptions 
and war? Has anyone from the rational center or left given thought to how to respond to a national emergency to 
cope with a kakistocratic seizure of emergency powers? The Patriot Act was on a 'shelf as you know, ready to 
be used. What should the better folks in this country have at hand if, say, a port is subject to a radiological 
attack of unknown origin? 
On Fri, Jan 20, 2017 at 1:07 AM, David Grosof <grosof@sloan.mit.edu> wrote: 
Dear Jeffrey, 
A Congratulations on another spin around the sun. 
A I would like to offer you a birthday present: my best efforts for a few hours on something where I might be 
able to contribute either to making something good happen for you or help you prevent the bad. 
We haven't talked much at all for quite some time, so I'm not sure of the nature of your current interests but here 
are some of mine, where I feel I either have some special capability or can get access to those who have such. 
* open science -- open access publishing, data publishing, and open culture institutions considered as a network 
with largely consistent and mutually reinforcing values: Public Library of Science (PLoS), Wikipedia, Internet 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029085 
Archive, Electronic Frontier Foundation, and Creative Commons, along with allied US, UK, European 
governmental and NGO funding sources and other institutions. 
* early-stage life science-based ventures, especially those with one or more of these technologies: optics, 
wearable-sensors, brain-computer interface, behavioral engineering that goes beyond robo-noodging. I am not 
up to speed on synthetic bio and CRISPR, but I have a good friend who is. 
* cybersecurity for you and your life. I have carefully monitored the web for articles about you and I have 
reason to think that those will persist indefinitely. I would be remiss as your friend if I did not encourage you to 
be as diligent and smart as possible in using tools like Signal, two-factor/multi-factor authentication, taking 
webmail archives off the web onto your own secure privately maintained archive or deleted (unlike Podesta), 
and other measures. 
* publicity for your cool-ass creative and important philanthropy in support of really good and adventuresome, 
high-risk basic science research. Most obvious benefit: it would be nice to know you hung out with the bright 
David Grosof 
AA AA AA A please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
David Grosof 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029086 
