From: Robert Kuhn 
Sent: 5/11/2017 5:38:37 AM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Kuhn 
Importance: High 
Ruminating (in Beijing traffic) on plant biology and ways to structure possible Closer To Truth (CTT) series to 
portray your sense and insights. 
For plant biology per se, there's probably three strong episodes, with higher production values needed to 
illustrate ideas/principles (more than the usual CTT talking heads). To fit the CTT framework (and audience 
expectation), these fascinating discoveries or hints of complex, multifarious mechanisms would need to be 
explored (even if not yet understood) in terms of simple, fundamental principles (applicable across disciplines - 
so-called 'general systems theory'). 
This potential series on plant biology could be extended to 5-6 episodes by including medicinals - plant 
derivatives that are, for some conditions, best treatments for numerous diseases. This could include, for 
example, a critical look at Chinese medicine. 
I think, though, there is a bigger idea lurking here. Your unique ways of thinking, exemplified by plant biology, 
encourages another, larger possibility for a significant CTT series. Each of the topics you've brought up, and 
many of your past fundings, sought kinds of breakthroughs or radically new ways of approaching reality and the 
knowledge and manipulation of reality. So, how about producing a big CTT series on just that - "Radical 
Breakthroughs"? 
I can imagine CTT episodes on each of the following kinds of topics you've mentioned, in which radical 
breakthroughs or deep structural significance are being appreciated: 
- Plant Biology 
- Deception (biology) 
- Power Laws ("found everywhere in nature, Pareto, law of large numbers") 
- New Math ("category theory, membrane computing, as a new tool for cognition") 
- Mathematics and Truth 
- Music ("a tool to interogate the brain, not a product of but a lense into the inner software") 
- Dreams ("always on, consciousness blocking access, schizo have sleep disorders") 
- Power (nature,as you said, "financial, physical, intellectual, ability to do things in a local space") 
I'm sure there are other such categories of 'radical breakthrough' - for example, several wild ideas in 
neuroscience, such as levels of information from sub-cellular to massive circuitry. 
We would clearly unify the topics and episodes with an overarching thematic vision of "radical breakthroughs" 
that "challenge conventional wisdom" (this phrase was an early Closer To Truth subtitle). 
Several of these topics can have more than one episode. We can easily produce 13 high-quality episodes and 
thus have a coherent full season on "Radical Breakthroughs", which would be distributed and marketed as such. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025310 
Such an approach to "Radical Breakthroughs" is core CTT - in fact, I attempted this as part of the very first 
CTT series in 1999/2000 
"How do Breakthroughs Change Science" - with evolutionary biologist Francisco Ayala; philosopher and 
neuroscientist Patricia Smith Churchland; author/astronomer Timothy Ferris; child psychologist Rochel 
Gelman; and astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson - https://www.closertotruth.com/roundtables/how-do-
breakthroughs-change-science  
"What are the Big Questions of Science?" - with evolutionary biologist Francisco Ayala; philosopher and 
neuroscientist Patricia Smith Churchland; author/astronomer Timothy Ferris; theoretical physicist Steve 
Koonin; and astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson - https://www.closertotruth.com/roundtables/what-are-the-big-
questions-science  
Though the production values of these early shows are much lower than our current version (since 2008), the 
content and contributors suggest how CTT can do a big new series - a full season of 13 episodes - on "Radical 
Breakthroughs". 
Appreciate specific direction, so that when we meet, I can be prepared 
Love to do something big and dramatic together. 
Robert 
On May 9, 2017, at 7:52 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
plant biology. ? great experiments being done. rarely looked at before. root communication. No , I have 
not lost my mind, . If done well , you would get lots of press. cutting edge technologys for optogenetics 
, experiments that dont require IRB approval. . its very exciting. do plants get an alzheimer equivalent 
placque, . als disease. parkinsons , yes it seems so. most cancer drugs are plant derivatives. / lots of 
fun . good luck in china 
On Mon, May 8, 2017 at 11:39 PM, Robert Kuhn <1> wrote: 
Appreciate consideration. I'm next in NY June 7 (for about a week); love to brainstorm.... I too would really 
like to do something (important) together. 
Just arrived in Beijing for the "The Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation" (commentating), the 
second most important event of 2017 in China (after the upcoming Party Congress), but Western media not 
paying much attention, what with All-Things-Trump. 
On May 8, 2017, at 7:03 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
hope things are well. . when are you back. . I would love to do something with you, but sleep is not going 
to be it. . I have read quite alot and frankly , the subject is fascinating but i see no real insights, just more 
questions and mostly the same ones that have been asked for years. . yes, its role in many processes are now 
becoming apparent. but I see no theories that can hold their own ( yet ). 
please note 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025311 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025312 
