From: Kathy Ruemmler 
Sent: 5/28/2018 10:56:02 PM 
To: jeevacation@gmail.com 
Subject: Middle Eastern Monarchs Look at the Trumps and See Themselves — Foreign Policy 
Importance: High 
http://foreignpolicy.com/2018/05/28/middle-eastern-monarchs-look-at-the-trumps-and-see-themselves/amp/ 
Middle Eastern Monarchs Look at the 
Trumps and See Themselves 
America's Arab allies have always wanted to buy direct access 
to U.S. foreign policy, and they finally found a seller. 
May 28, 2018 
Ivanka Trump andJared Kushner at the presentation of the Order of Abdulaziz al-Saud 
medal at the Saudi Royal Court in Riyadh on May 20, 2017.(MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty 
Images) 
Almost 20 years ago when I was a graduate student living in Cairo, I published an article in 
a Washington-based journal called Middle East Insight. The magazine had a solid 
reputation, with a knack for scoring interviews with important people. (In the same edition 
as my piece, titled "Egypt's Next Generation," there was an interview with Gamal Mubarak, 
son of long-term Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, who had already begun his rise___ 
though not yet his eventual fall____as heir apparent.) A few years later, Middle East Insight 
disappeared. When I heard the news, I figured the magazine was too niche for an expanding 
media environment, shrugged my shoulders, and went on with life. 
I hadn't thought about Middle East Insight until its onetime publisher, George Nader, 
recently exploded into the news as an international man of mystery at the center of an 
apparent attempt to covertly influence the outcome of the last American presidential 
election. It seems that in the span of not quite two decades, the guy who ran a small, likely 
not profitable, but influential policy magazine become a conduit between Crown Prince 
Mohammed bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan of the Abu Dhabi, Saudi Crown Prince 
Mohammed bin Salman, and Donald Trump's closest inner circle, both after, and 
crucially for special counsel Robert Mueller's ongoing criminal investigation___before 
Trump's election as U.S. president. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029505 
Nader's story is yet another example of the sleaze, greed, and influence-peddling that has 
come to seem ordinary in Trump-era Washington. But it also offers a view into a more 
extraordinary and unprecedented problem: a decision by some of America's closest allies in 
the Middle East to leverage their financial resources in common cause with a bunch 
of ganef s to influence U.S. foreign policy. It is a problem that can be traced back, in ways 
that haven't generally been understood, to Trump's son-in-law and senior advisor Jared 
Kushner and his mobile phone. 
From the perspective of the leaders of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Israel (there 
is an Israeli angle to the George Nader story, but it isn't yet entirely clear), and Egypt, there 
was an entirely rational reason to support Trump's presidential bid and try to influence his 
approach to the Middle East: They did not like former President Barack Obama's Middle 
East policy. And while they likely understood that presidential nominee Hillary Clinton was 
more hawkish that the president she served as secretary of state, the Saudis, Emiratis, and 
Israelis were concerned that she would be tethered to the Iran nuclear deal and thus Obama's 
Iran policy. 
They also believed that Clinton would be soft on Islamists. It is an article of faith in Egypt 
that she enabled the rise of the Muslim Brotherhood and Mohamed Morsi in 2011 and 2012. 
For countries in the Persian Gulf, Egypt provides strategic depth, and "losing" it to the 
Muslim Brotherhood was a major geopolitical blow. The Israelis, for obvious reasons, were 
deeply concerned about the accumulation of Islamist political power next door and blamed 
the Obama administration for abandoning Hosni Mubarak, thereby placing Israel's security 
in jeopardy. 
With Trump, Washington's allies got a candidate and president who referred to the Iran 
nuclear agreement as the "worst deal ever," surrounded himself with people who either 
make no distinction between al Qaeda and the Muslim Brotherhood or are simply outright 
Islamophobes, and has forthrightly declared that the United States supports its friends in the 
fight against terrorism. Full stop. No caveats, buts, or howevers concerning human rights 
and the need for political reform. To them, this seemed a lot better than the appreciation of 
nuance and complexity that was a hallmark of the Obama administration. 
Of course, even if an American president shares a given ally's view of the world, diplomacy 
does not stop. The job of ambassadors, foreign ministers, and other representatives of 
foreign governments is to keep the United States on their side. Traditionally, this is done 
through formal discussions with U.S. officials at the State Department, National Security 
Council, and Department of Defense; meetings with members of Congress; writing op-eds in 
influential media outlets; and informal channels of influence, notably the Washington social 
circuit of dinners, embassy garden parties, national day events and the like. No doubt there 
was a lot of this going on through the first year and half of the Trump administration. But as 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029506 
we now know, there was an entirely parallel effort to influence American foreign policy, and 
George Nader was at the center of it. 
According to the New York Times, Nader and Elliott Broidy pitched a scheme to the 
governments of the UAE and Saudi Arabia in which Broidy would use his extensive 
contacts in Washington, especially in the White House, to shape U.S. policy toward Qatar, 
which the Saudis and Emiratis accuse of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, funding 
extremism, and cozying up to Iran. Apparently, the Emiratis agreed to the arrangement. 
Clearly, putting the screws to Qatar's Emir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani is a high priority for 
the crown princes of Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi, who undoubtedly would not apologize 
for using every method and resource at their disposal to advance their countries' interests. 
What is the Trump administration's excuse, though? 
The kind of influence-peddling in which Nader and Broidy were involved can be traced back 
to Jared Kushner. On Nov. 8, 2016, if not before, he was handing out his cellphone number 
to all kinds of people in Washington with little regard for the potential consequences and 
apparently little idea about who was genuinely powerful and who were just posers. No doubt 
that important people in certain countries had the mobile numbers of senior members of the 
Obama administration, plus their Gmail addresses, but there was something qualitatively 
different about the way Kushner was operating. He was essentially opening the door to a 
Trumpian culture in which there is no process, there is no vetting, everyone and anyone 
could be an asset, loyalty is the greatest quality second only to money, and there are always 
ways to get something done no matter what. 
Trump's world does not operate the same way as Washington's major Middle Eastern allies, 
but there are some parallels that make stories like the George Nader affair possible. Trump's 
tendency to eschew the formal processes and procedures of government dovetails with the 
way in informal power, uncodified norms, and past practices shape governance and policy in 
places as diverse as Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Egypt, and Israel. These kinds of informal 
institutions exist in the United States as well; a lot of things have gotten done in Washington 
over the years because of the Harvard "old boys' network or because that's the way it has 
always been done in the cloakroom. But informal networking has generally not guided the 
realm of foreign policy, which has always involved an exhaustive (and exhausting) 
interagency process. Kushner's willingness to hand out his digits signaled that Team Trump 
was open to doing things significantly differently from previous administrations, and U.S. 
allies along with people like Nader and Broidy took him up on it. The result was a $650 
million contract for Broidy's security firm after he bent the ear of the president and others 
about the perfidy of the Qatari leadership. 
From the vantage point of Middle Eastern capitals, in Trump's Washington, the secretary of 
state and the national security advisor are superfluous. You could go through Kushner or 
supplement by engaging in some "riyalpolitik." The influence business has been around 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029507 
Washington for a long time. The amount of money that foreign governments expend on D.C. 
lobbying is staggering, but the Nader-Broidy scheme was an attempt to sell American 
foreign policy___which, as Mueller will soon remind everyone lest anyone in Trump's orbit 
forget, is different from selling real estate. 
Like this article? Read an unlimited number of articles, plus access to our entire 47-year 
printed archive, the FP App, and the Digital Magazine when you subscribe to FP  
Premium for just 99 cents! 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029508 
