THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLE MAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ AND VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
Boswall House, 2 Cornwall Terrace
13th - 20th, October 2010
PRESS CLIPPING
INTERNET
1
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.dazeddigital.com/artsandculture/article/8775/1/the-house-of-the-nobleman
Arts & Culture
The House Of The Nobleman
Old Masters are hung in the company of some of the most notorious contemporary artists on the block in a show
opposite Frieze Art Fair
Text by John-Paul Pryor
For what is a man profited, if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Perhaps this is one question that
could be asked of any billionaire art collector. In The House of The Nobleman, artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz
examines our relationship to art and the role of the supposedly worldly or noble collector from a nonjudgemental
critical distance, and exhibits art both old and new (from Manet and Cézanne to The Chapmans and
Damien Hirst) in a show that promises to prove contentious. Here, Lenkiewicz’s own “resequenced” Picassos will
be exhibited against their original counterparts, effectively folding art history in upon itself to create an entirely
new kind of dialogue. Dazed Digital went down to his studio to talk nobility, history and the reasons why a lost
battle is a battle one thinks one has lost.
Dazed Digital: What is the concept that informs The House Of The Nobleman?
Wolfe von Lenkiewicz: When I started to plan the exhibition with the co-curator Victoria Golembiovskaya (by
whom I was fascinated because she was instrumental in manoeuvring a submarine in the grand canal in Venice), I
began to think about the notion of quality in the 21st century as opposed to the set of values pursued by Marsilio
Ficino. The dislocation and decertification of a stable position in the world, which was formally the aristocrat, the
king… the noble man. The artist, being perceived at the centre, was seen as a God, and within Ptolemaic
concentric rings one moved from dog, to angel, to God. This is a hierarchical linear model, which has been
attractive for five centuries in one form or another. The idea of this show is to explore a post-humanist form of
compassion – the world is dynamically changing, and no matter how flexible our map may be to quantify it, we
will be in an eternal struggle with meaning.
2
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.royalacademy.org.uk/ra-magazine/blog/the-house-of-the-nobleman,61,BAR.html
The House of the Nobleman
Posted: 14 October 2010 by Sarah Greenberg, RA Magazine Editor
Most people selling a property try to make it seem welcoming by brewing coffee and - at a stretch – baking bread.
But in a world gone mad for property and art, the stakes have been raised. How about a house that's been
'staged' (as they say Stateside) with a built-in art collection, including an eclectic array of work from Picasso to
Grayson Perry, Rodin to Richter, Manet to, predictably, Murakami, the artist who famously emblazoned his
designs on Louis Vuitton bags.
Yes, the £29m budget is a bit steep, but it needn't put you of from booking a tour to see this renovated mansion
in Cornwall Terrace that has been curated by Victoria Golemblovskaya and artist Wolfe Von Lenkiewicz, with the
participation of the Saatchi Collection and Channel 4.
Exhibition open until 20 October, 11am – 6pm, by appointment only
www.cornwallterrace.co.uk/boswallhouse
Boswall House Map here
2 Cornwall Terrace
Regent's Park
London NW1 4QP
3
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.timeout.com/london/art/event/203383/the-house-of-the-noble-man
The House of the Noble Man
This event has now finished Until Wed Oct 20 Boswall House, 2 Cornwall Terrace, London, NW1 Full details & map
Time Out says
Old Masters and famous names from contemporary art, including Picasso, Manet, Cézanne, Damien Hirst, Banksy,
Martin Kippenberger and Gerhard Richter, in a show curated by Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria
Golembiovskaya held in an eighteenth-century building close to the Frieze Art Fair. Work from the Saatchi
Gallery's 'New Sensations 2010 ' exhibition of graduating students is also on show. Entry is free but by
appointment only. Visit the website to book.
Boswall House details
11am-6pm Mon-Sat by appointment only
Address
Boswall House
2 Cornwall Terrace, London, United Kingdom NW1
Transport Baker Street
http://www.cornwallterrace.co.uk/boswallhouse
4
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.jotta.com/article/events-other/1136/the-house-of-the-noble-man
The House of the Noble Man
15.10.2010
2 Cornwall Terrace, a magnificent 18th-century building off Regent’s Park and a stone’s throw from Frieze art fair,
will be the venue for this spectacular exhibition featuring Old Masters and famous names from contemporary art,
including Picasso, Manet, Cézanne, Damien Hirst, Banksy, Martin Kippenberger and Gerhard Richter. Work from
the Saatchi Gallery’s ‘New Sensations 2010 ‘ including jotta artist Joshua Bilton also on show.
The show imagines the house’s inhabitant as a hugely successful trader. Having used his mastery of technology
and the possibilities of the information age to amass vast wealth, he aspires to find a shaping narrative for the
etiolated form of his existence. Art is one of the avenues in his search.
He may live in a nobleman’s house, but he’s no blue blood. A tax exile, nomadic by habit, our collector spends his
days - and nights - bathed in the blue light of a computer screen, as he trades in dematerialized securities, or
prices options based on weather conditions on the other side of the globe: drowned cities viewed remotely via
CNN, or better, modelled via a computer simulation.
The roles of the nobleman and artist found a convergence in the figure of Don Quixote, a fool who aspired to the
chivalric codes he’d read about in antiquated texts. But this fantasy was a liberation; allowing him to contend with
base matter, infusing it with near-infinite possibilities, just as the empirical certainties of the Renaissance would
soon give way to the vertiginous perspectives of the new mathematics.
The exhibition updates the Don Quixote model to cast the collector/artist/nobleman as a man without qualities,
occupying the privileged space of the capitalist elite, looking down through a virtual window to plot the
constantly-changing vectors of matter, bodies and events as they hurtle by on the other side of the glass.
Curated by Victoria Ionina-Golembiovskaya and Wolfe Von Lenkiewicz
Friday 15th to Wednesday the 20th October, 11 am - 6 p.m, by appointment only
2 Cornwall Terrace, The Regent's Park, London NW1
5
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://798district.com/798/en/blog/tag/the-house-of-the-noble-man/
6m GBP worth of Picassos to go on show during Frieze 0
Posted on September 14, 2010 by Cindy Van Der Rijt
Four rare works by Picasso thought to be worth over £6m and an 1875 Cézanne oil on canvas will go on sale
during Frieze week next month in an ambitious exhibition to be held at a London property part owned by a
Russian billionaire. The show, entitled “The House of the Noble Man” (12-20 October), will open at 2 Cornwall
Terrace, an 18th-century building off Regent’s Park in London near to the Frieze Art Fair site. The exhibition is
curated by artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz, whose works will feature in the display, and Russian curator Victoria
Golembiovskaya. Around £20m worth of art will be for sale, approximately a third of the show, confirms Von
Lenkiewicz.
According to the co-curator, the Picasso pieces on offer will include Buste d’Homme à la Pipe (1969, priced at
£3m); the 1905 drawing The Family of Saltimbanques and a cubist painting, Nature Morte au Gobelet (around
1914). An 1875 oil on canvas by Cézanne, Don Quixote, is priced at £1.25m. Works by Yves Klein, Egon Schiele,
Gerhard Richter, Damien Hirst and Andy Warhol will also be for sale. Von Lenkiewicz’s own works will be in the
£30,000-£60,000 price range.
Read the full article
Tags: CézanneFrieze Art FairPicassoThe House of the Noble Man
Category Art, Exhibitions
6
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.spoonfed.co.uk/spooners/tom-699/editor-s-choice-exhibitions-3982/
Editor's Choice - Exhibitions
18 October, 2010
by: Tom Jeffreys
Every Monday our editors bring you their personal highlights of the week ahead. Tom Jeffreys selects his top
three exhibitions.
Until Wednesday 20th October
House of the Nobleman @ 2 Cornwall Terrace
Of all the bits and bobs that crop up across the capital during Frieze week, this was one of the highlights.
Victoria Golembiovskaya and Wolfe Von Lenkiewicz curate an exhibition in the sumptuous splendour of 2
Cornwall Terrace.
On display are paintings and sculpture by major artists fromn throughout history like Schiele, Picasso, and Manet,
dotted among which are this year's Saatchi/Channel 4 New Sensations.
7
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.thisislondon.co.uk/standard/article-23888111-future-art-stars-cause-a-new-sensation.do
Future art stars cause a New Sensation
Louise Jury, Chief Arts Correspondent
15.10.10
Twenty artists hailed as stars of the future are getting the chance to show their work alongside that of 60 masters,
from Picasso and Warhol to Manet, Rodin and Cézanne.
The 20 were chosen from hundreds of graduate students in the New Sensations Prize, a contest now in its fourth
year, organised by Charles Saatchi's gallery and Channel 4.
Their work is part of The House of the Nobleman, an exhibition of art borrowed from international collections
that is being staged in an 18th-century mansion in Cornwall Terrace, Regent's Park, a stone's throw from the
Frieze Art Fair.
Four of the graduates were selected to receive £1,000 bursaries to develop a project for inclusion. They are:
German Pablo Wendel, 30, whose degree work involved squatting in a derelict chip shop to which he built a
staircase, later dismantled by Royal College of Art staff in a health and safety row; Katie Surridge, 25, and Russian
Nika Neelova, 23, both Slade School graduates, and Ross M Brown, 24, who is still studying in Dundee. One of
them will be named this year's overall winner on Monday and the exhibition runs until Wednesday.
Rebecca Wilson, associate director of the Saatchi Gallery, said: “The 20 shortlisted artists have created a stunning
range of work, including
photography, painting, installation and sculpture. The exhibition offers a wonderful opportunity to discover the
bright stars of the future.”
More than half of the graduate artists are based in the capital. “London is still one of the best places to do a fine
art degree and has that reputation across the world, as well as being one of the most vibrant centres for
contemporary art,” Ms Wilson added.
New Sensations at the House of the Nobleman, 2 Cornwall Terrace, is open until Wednesday.
8
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.thisislondon.co.uk/standard/article-23885619-how-art-can-make-greed-look-fabulous.do
How art can make greed look fabulous
Olivia Cole
07.10.10
Literature's most sinister art connoisseur is probably Henry James's Gilbert Osmond, the collector of beautiful
objects to whom Isabel Archer shackles her fortunes in The Portrait of a Lady. She is at first dazzled by his advice
that “one ought to make one's life a work of art”, before realising that he has no imagination of his own, only
acquisitiveness: beauty by proxy. By that time, as his wife, she is part of his collection.
So how to spot a Gilbert Osmond today? You might imagine one lives in The House of the Nobleman, an
exhibition opening next week in a vast Edwardian pile on the borders of Regent's Park to coincide with the nearby
Frieze art fair.
Surveying the Ј20 million-worth of paintings, from Poussin to Warhol via Picasso, visitors are invited to believe
that they are in the house of an extravagantly committed collector. This imagined character is someone like
Randolph Hearst in Citizen Kane: a rich man with non-existent morals but exquisite taste. Like Dick Fuld, Lehman
Brothers' last CEO: earlier this month, it took Christie's days to sell off the bank's art collection.
Here there is no so such owner: this collection has been curated by two artists, Victoria Golembiovskaya and the
painter Wolfe von Lenkiewicz. The nobleman of their title is a modern-day Don Quixote, caught between fantasy
and reality. Von Lenkiewicz says City practices such as shorting have “no direct relationship to reality”. Their
modern-day nobleman hankers for meaning and order: beauty even. Hence the kind of people who fervently
collect in London. The compulsion to be known not only as loaded but cultured is often observed but rarely
examined. It's interesting that this show is staged by artists all of whom have a complex relationship with the kind
of people characterised by Vince Cable as merely “spivs and gamblers”. Wolfe refers to people who do
“unspeakable things” before reiterating that the show isn't a moral judgment.
Even so, their show tries to lift the veil on the activity at Frieze. As a centre for commercial art sustained still by
swilling disposable income, London eclipses Paris and New York. Frieze will be swarming with both people like me,
who go to look, and hundreds of the modern-day “noblemen” with their Black Amex cards. It's no small irony that
The House of the Nobleman naturally has its own massively wealthy backer, Russian property giant Mirax. Greed
might not be good but it sure can look fabulous.
And what about the savvier artists? Tracey Emin whines about arts cuts yet moans about her tax bill. Damien Hirst
has exploited the market in his own work as ruthlessly as any hedge-funder. Wolfe himself confidently discusses
algorithms and is a favourite of collectors such as Bono and Richard Devereux, co-founder of Virgin. London's
most successful artists aren't exactly in the gutter, looking at the stars.
9
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.theartnewspaper.com/articles/£6m-worth-of-Picassos-to-go-on-show-during-Frieze/21495
£6m worth of Picassos to go on show during Frieze
The exhibition, to be held in a property co-owned by a Russian billionaire, also includes works by Warhol, Hirst,
Richter and Saatchi's "New Sensations"
By Gareth Harris | Web only
Published online 9 Sep 10 (News)
Four rare works by Picasso thought to be worth over £6m and an 1875 Cézanne oil on canvas will go on sale
during Frieze week next month in an ambitious exhibition to be held at a London property part owned by a
Russian billionaire. The show, entitled "The House of the Noble Man" (12-20 October), will open at 2 Cornwall
Terrace, an 18th-century building off Regent's Park in London near to the Frieze Art Fair site. The exhibition is
curated by artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz, whose works will feature in the display, and Russian curator Victoria
Golembiovskaya. Around £20m worth of art will be for sale, approximately a third of the show, confirms Von
Lenkiewicz.
According to the co-curator, the Picasso pieces on offer will include Buste d'Homme à la Pipe (1969, priced at
£3m); the 1905 drawing The Family of Saltimbanques and a cubist painting, Nature Morte au Gobelet (around
1914). An 1875 oil on canvas by Cézanne, Don Quixote, is priced at £1.25m. Works by Yves Klein, Egon Schiele,
Gerhard Richter, Damien Hirst and Andy Warhol will also be for sale. Von Lenkiewicz's own works will be in the
£30,000-£60,000 price range.
"The Picassos etc. are from anonymous dealers who will take their portion of the percentages. Any other
proceeds made during the show will go back into the funding of the exhibition which is hugely expensive despite
its sponsorship [by the Russian real estate company Mirax]," adds Von Lenkiewicz. A selection of works from
Charles Saatchi's "New Sensations 2010" roster of emerging artists will also be for sale. Twenty students
shortlisted for the prize, which is sponsored by Cadogan Tate, have been chosen to present their work; these
artists include Matthew Welch, Katie Sims and Pablo Wendel. A non-selling section will include works from the
London-based Zabludowicz Collection and the holdings of the Iraqi-born industrialist Ragdan El-akabi.
"The show came about when I was in Moscow exhibiting my work at Triumph Gallery. Victoria took me to the
Mirax city project, a huge development in central Moscow. She talked to Sergei Polonsky [head of Mirax] about
the Cornwall Terrace buildings which he has shares in. He was willing to sponsor the show," says Von Lenkiewicz.
The Mirax group are co-developers of the Cornwall Terrace historical complex, parts of which are up for sale.
10
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.foldgallery.com/cgi-bin/mail.cgi/archive/fold/20101011025541/
PHYSICAL PAINTING REMINDER
Simon Callery
Fold Gallery London would like to invite you to the Physical Painting private view this Tuesday evening.
The gallery will be running special extended opening hours this week, we will be opening Wednesday 13th to
Sunday 17th from 12 - 6pm.
To coincide with the show at Fold Gallery one of Callery's large-scale paintings will also be on display in The
House Of The Nobleman exhibition. Located at 2 Cornwall Terrace in Regents Park and just across from Frieze Art
Fair, this show includes works by Picasso, Poussin and Cezanne.
For press on 'The House Of The Nobleman' Exhibition see below link
http://www.theartnewspaper.com/articles/%C2%A36m-worth-of-Picassos-to-go-on-show-during-Frieze/21495
To book a viewing for 'The House Of The Nobleman' Exhibition see below link
http://www.cornwallterrace.co.uk/boswallhouse/
11
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.ft.com/cms/s/2/e8bd5d0c-d4d5-11df-b230-00144feabdc0.html
Elsewhere in London: what’s on and what to see
Published: October 13 2010 01:20 | Last updated: October 13 2010 01:20
With the absence of Zoo, the Pavilion of Art & Design (PAD) (until October 17; www.padlondon.net) will this year
play second fiddle to Frieze. This sophisticated fair of modern and contemporary art, design, photography and
tribal art from 1860 was conceived by Patrick Perrin and Stéphane Custot and is now in its fourth year. PAD has
retained its place in Berkeley Square, a site that offers limited space expansion, but a sought-after Mayfair
address.
As auction houses all jostle to cash in on the festival spirit, Christie’s is launching an initiative entitled Multiplied
(October 15-18; www.multipliedartfair.com) at its South Kensington saleroom. The focus of this fair is
contemporary art editions – photographs, prints, artists’ books and 3D multiples – and there will be big names,
including John Baldessari, Mat Collishaw and Gerald Laing, on sale for small prices.
Another example of canny innovation – or outsiders crashing the party – is House of the Nobleman at 2 Cornwall
Terrace (October 15-20; www.cornwallterrace.co.uk/boswallhouse). This is a property viewing with a difference:
not only is the house itself on the market, but so is much of the art – including works by Pablo Picasso, Helen
Chadwick and Grayson Perry – that decorates its interior.
While the majority of Frieze Week events take place in grandiose settings in London’s West End, a couple of
contrasting fairs are capitalising on sites in the city’s East End. The Future Can Wait (until October 17;
www.thefuturecanwait.com), an alternative fair started by trusted talent-spotters Zavier Ellis and Simon Rumley,
returns to Shoreditch Town Hall for the fourth year running.
12
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.artnet.com/magazineus/news/artnetnews/frieze-week-preview10-8-10.asp
HERE COMES FRIEZE WEEK
Oct. 8, 2010
Here it comes. Next week, Oct. 14-17, 2010, is London’s time to shine like the diamond it is in the international
art-market sun, as Frieze Week bows in the British super-city. With dozens of events and most of the best
galleries making the trip, the whole thing is exhausting just to think about. Here, then, a quick-and-dirty summary
of some of the highlights. We’re sure we’ve missed a few, but this’ll do to start:
FRIEZE
Of course the centerpiece, as usual, is the Frieze Art Fair itself, going up in Regent’s Park. The selection is topnotch,
with some 173 exhibitors on board, including most of the top dealers you’d expect.
MORE, MORE, MORE
Much more is going on, including big events like the launch of Ai Weiwei’s Turbine Hall installation at Tate
Modern. We, however, prefer to focus on some of the freakier offerings.
Or what about the The Museum of Everything in Primrose Hill, which was "regarded as the most successful new
addition to the Frieze scene last year" (according to the Independent). For the third exhibition at the space,
opening Oct. 13, Pop art pioneer Peter Blake curates a show of "outsider" art and artifacts, including pieces by
Morton Bartlett, James Castle, Henry Darger and Martin Ramirez. During Frieze Week, contemporary art stars
like Bob & Roberta Smith, Polly Morgan and Jeremy Deller are scheduled for various tours and talks at the
Museum. Worth a swing by.
Then there is the mysterious House of the Noble Man, Oct. 12-20, at 2 Cornwall Terrace, an 18th-century building
off Regent’s Park, near Frieze. What exactly this show is remains unclear, but it is some kind of conceptual selling
exhibition, sponsored by the Russian billionaire who owns the property, and curated by artist Wolfe von
Lenkiewicz with Russian curator Victoria Golembiovskaya. Lenkiewicz, for his part, describes it as "a curatorial
concept playing with the idea of commerce, mirroring the [art] market with irony." The Art Newspaper reports
that some £20-million in art will be for sale, including works by Picasso and Cézanne, as well as a selection of
works from Charles Saatchi’s "New Sensations 2010" roster of emerging artists, and the holdings of the Iraqi-born
industrialist Ragdan El-akabi.
13
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.artnet.com/magazineus/reviews/jones/frieze-art-week10-22-10.asp
LONDON DISPATCH
by Laura K. Jones
Powerless against the magnetic force towing them in to the bowels of Regent’s Park, 60,000 visitors to the eighth
edition of the Frieze Art Fair were faced with a decision. What to buy from an array of works whose combined
price came to $365 million?
Would it be The True Artist Helps the World by Revealing Mystic Truths, a sprawling Damien Hirst cabinet
containing a school of pickled fish, priced at $5.6 million? The huge work turned out to be the star sale of the fair,
as was widely reported, when it was flogged immediately from the White Cube stand during the Frieze preview.
Apparently, the cynical press refers to the vernissage as "Billionaires Day," and indeed, attendees included Claudia
Schiffer, Charles Saatchi, Steve Cohen (a first timer to the fair) and Dasha Zhukova.
So powerful has Frieze become that commercial galleries, public spaces and auction houses now tie their activities
to it more than ever. Off-site auctions saw Phillips de Pury selling David Hockney’s Autumn Pool for $2 million and
Christie’s flogging Andreas Gursky’s photograph of the New York Stock Exchange for $700,000, almost three times
its estimate.
Harry Blain and Graham Southern, former directors of Haunch of Venison, inaugurated their new gallery,
BlainSouthern, with "Creation Condemned," a hypnotic and troubling show by Mat Collishaw of images of pole
dancers, frenzied burning butterflies and the great ravines that were left when the Taliban destroyed the Bamiyan
Buddhas. Fusing symbols of decadence and decay, Collishaw makes lithophanes -- in this case, images etched in
thin, translucent Corian, lit from behind with slowly pulsating lights. Blain and Southern afterwards invited the art
world to the Ivy Club until the early hours of the next morning.
Then, it was onwards and upwards to "The House of the Noble Man," a super-slick exhibition in an 18th-century
Cornwall Terrace townhouse near to the Frieze site (an address, according to the Art Newspaper, thought to be
being prepped for sale to former U.S. president Bill Clinton) that was co-curated by polymath artist Wolfe
Lenkiewicz and Victoria Golembiovskaya. The show felt like serious money, including as it did Andy Warhol works
I’d never even seen images of before, plus things by Poussin, Manet, Cézanne, Picasso, Hirst and Kippenberger.
Over its five floors, "Noble Man" also housed work from the Saatchi Gallery's "New Sensations 2010" exhibition of
graduating students. Stand-out pieces included So Over, a room full of animal hides by Kate Surridge, a sculpture
student at Slade School, and I Used to Think, an exceptional cautionary film about the bleeding-eyed X Factor
generation by a man called Lee Holden. Amazingly sinister, the slo-mo montage included images of Britney
Spears, a live lobotomy, a childlike Japanese robot and a woman suffering paranoid delusions, all to a haunting
soundtrack of modern music and computer sounds.
14
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.artlyst.com/articles/top-10-frieze-week-art-events
Top 10 Frieze Week Art Events
This is the ArtLyst top 10 list of events and exhibitions in and around London during Frieze week . The corridor is
jam packed with exciting things to experience and see before the phenomenon finishes on the 17 October. Frieze
costs around £30 but many of the other events are actually Free !
Frieze Art Fair 14 – 17 October features over 150 of the most exciting contemporary art galleries in the world. The
fair also includes specially commissioned artists’ projects, a prestigious talks programme and an artist-led
education schedule. Around £30 for a one day pass. Fair Information
Ai Weiwei, Tate Modern Unilever series turbine hall installation. Tate Modern London Bankside Free
Vanitas - The Transience of Earthly Pleasures. The exhibition will take place in the sumptuous setting of the
former Sierra Leone Embassy on 33 Great Portland Street during this year’s Frieze Art Fair.The Age of the
Marvellous exhibition, which attracted over 4,000 visitors during Frieze Art Fair last October was in ArtLyst's top
ten exhibitions of 2009. Now All Visual Arts (AVA) has announced its upcoming fall show Vanitas: The Transience
of Earthly Pleasures. Conceived and curated by Joe La Placa and Mark Sanders of AVA, the exhibition is a
contemporary update on the four hundred year old theme of the Vanitas first developed in Holland and Northern
Europe in the mid to late 17th century. from October the 11th until the 17th. Free
House of the Noble Man, Oct. 12-20, at 2 Cornwall Terrace, an 18th-century building off Regent’s Park, near
Frieze. Modern Masters in opulent setting.
15
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.artinfo.com/news/story/36017/artinfo-uks-guide-to-frieze-week-2010/
ARTINFO UK's Guide to Frieze Week 2010
By Coline Milliard, ARTINFO UK
Published: October 11, 2010
LONDON— Frieze Week is upon us! Europe's largest contemporary art fair has staked its tent in Regent’s Park,
bringing with it an estimated $375 million in work by brand-name artists and emerging talents alike, and London
is seething with exhibitions and events to welcome the collectors, tastemakers, and various art grandees
descending on the city. What to see? Where to go? ARTINFO UK has a few recommendations.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13 With still two days to go before Frieze Art Fair opens to the public, today is the perfect
day to indulge in a bit of London tourism, mixing in visits to the city's West End galleries. Stroll down Piccadilly
and stop at Thomas Dane Gallery, on Duke Street, for the Kelley Walker exhibition. On Heddon Street — a
continental oasis at the heart of Central London — Aicon Gallery has put together an excellent exhibition
retracing artist and thinker Rasheed Araeen’s first fifteen years of production, beginning in 1959. Two other good
shows on the same street are Paola Pivi at Carlson and Jimmie Durham at Sprovieri. You can also discover Sadie
Coles’ new space in New Burlington Place, inaugurated with an exhibition of Urs Fisher’s sculptures.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14 You’ve done Tate Britain, do you really need to go to Tate Modern? Of course you do.
First, the newly opened Gauguin exhibition is stunning and simply impossible to miss (it has been described by
the Times as "the show of the season — in fact of the whole year). Second, the new commission by Ai Weiwei,
was recently unveiled in Turbine Hall. You can then head north to enjoy Fergus Henderson’s English cuisine at St.
John Bar & Restaurant in Smithfield, before wandering to ROKEBY for their exhibition of German-born, Londonbased
artist Bettina Buck.
Today is also a good day to see "The House of the Noble Man," an exhibition curated by artist Wolfe von
Lenkiewicz and Russian curator Victoria Golembiovskayan. It includes a Cézanne, £6 million ($9.6 million) worth of
Picasso, as well as pieces by Damien Hirst, Christian Boltanski, Andy Warhol, Gerhard Richter, and many more —
all in the historical setting of Cornwall Terrace as it overlooks Regent’s Park. (This event is by appointment only at
Boswell House, 2 Cornwall Terrace, Regents Park, London NW1. To arrange a visit, register at:
http://www.cornwallterrace.co.uk/boswallhouse/).
16
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.paulfrasercollectibles.com/section.asp?docid=4519&catid=26
Rare Picasso works worth over £6m to be sold in October auction alongside Hirst and Warhol
Four pieces by the Cubist painter go on sale next month and could see record prices
Regent's Park in London is set to be the home of four very special artworks by the world renowned Spanish artist
Pablo Picasso.
The works, believed to worth over £6m ($9.3m) will be exhibited as part of a show called "The House of the Noble
Man" which is running from October 12 to 20 at 2 Cornwall Terrace in Regents park, London.
The works will go on sale alongside an 1875 Cézanne oil on canvas work, during Frieze week.
According to the co-curator of the exhibit, the four Picasso works on offer will include a 1905 drawing entitled
"The Family of Saltimbanques", a 1914 Cubist painting titled "Nature Morte au Gobelet" and the 1969 piece
"Buste d'Hommeà la Pipe" which is currently price at £3m ($4.6).
In addition to this the exhibit will have works by Yves Klein, Gerhard Richter, Egon Schiele and the more familiar
names of Andy Warhol and Damien Hirst.
The Picasso works are believed to have come from anonymous dealers, whilst a selection of pieces has also come
from Charles Saatchi's "New Sensations 2010" roster of emerging artists.
However, for many collectors the undoubted focus of the event will be the four works by Picasso.
Picasso's work is arguably some of the most valued and collectible on the market due to his position as a pioneer
and co-creator of the artistic form of Cubism.
There works subverted the traditional notion of painting an object, instead breaking them up and re-assembling
them in a abstract work to create an ambiguous and thought provoking piece of art.
17
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.harpersbazaar.co.uk/fashion/blog/the-editors/house-of-noble-man
House of Noble Man
Oct 18, 2010 04:06:00 PM by Sarah Bailey
I love the extraordinary and intriguing exhibitions which one encounters around the edges of Frieze. 2009's The
Age of the Marvellous at One Marylebone (curated by AVA) was one such discovery - dark and theatrical - which
stayed with me all year...
This year's House of Noble Man (a collaboration between the Saatchi Gallery and Channel 4's New Sensations), is
another spectacular show of a very different flavour mounted in No. 2 Cornwall Terrace, a gleaming showcase of
super-prime real-estate. (I attended on the opening night and was treated to a tour of two other oligarch-ready
show mansions at No.6 and 11 Cornwall Terrace, by a dashing Knight Frank estate agent by the name of Darren
Daggers... Quite surreal, but, of course, an incredibly resonant statement about the current art market).
Back at No. 2 Cornwall Terrace, House of Noble Man curated by Victoria Golembiovskaya and artist-of-themoment
Wolfe Von Lenkiewicz mixes work from the giants of modern art - Cezanne and Picasso - with some
dazzling and provocative contemporary pieces plus, of course, Channel 4's New Sensations discoveries.
I loved the filigree Cement Truck sculpture by Wim Delvoye (the Belgian conceptual artist probably best-known
for his work in the 90s involving the tattooing of live pigs), Rachel Whiteread's dolls house chess set and New
Sensation Elizabeth Jordan's dream-like kinetic installation, which she is showing in an upper bedroom. Of course,
there's nothing like a Frieze party to lure out London's finest exhibitions and I was very pleased to meet showgoer
Philip Levine, who uses his bald pate (bejeweled on this occasion as though he is wearing a Swarovski swim cap)
as his canvas. His next show, he informs me, is being sponsored by Gilette...
House of Noble Man is on until
Wednesday October 20, so do try and
see it. Entry is free, but you have to
book an appointment.
2 Cornwall Terrace, London, United
Kingdom, NW1, cornwallterrace.co.uk
(Image: 'House of Noble Man', curated
by Victoria Golembiovskaya and Wolfe
Von Lenkiewicz.)
18
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/art-in-residence-redeveloped-park-terrace-hosts-exhibit-
2102450.html
Art in Residence: Redeveloped park terrace hosts exhibit
By Deirdre Hipwell
Sunday, 10 October 2010
Curators Victoria Golembiovskaya and Wolfe Von Lenkiewicz, in collaboration with the Saatchi Gallery and
Channel 4's New Sensations, will host an art exhibition starting next Sunday showcasing famous works by artists
such as Paul Cezanne and Pablo Picasso.
The House of the Nobleman exhibit, which coincides with the Frieze Art Fair, will be held at the mansion No 2
Cornwall Terrace in Regents Park and will include works from several international art collections. No 2 Cornwall
Terrace has been extensively redeveloped by developer Oakmayne Bespoke and is part of a much larger
redevelopment of Cornwall Terrace to create eight mansions. The houses are up for sale starting at £29m.
19
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/art/features/frieze-art-fair-2010-get-ready-for-british-artsbiggest-week-2100683.html
Frieze Art Fair 2010: Get ready for British art's biggest week
Frieze Art Fair is back – and it's bigger than ever, with 173 international galleries. Alice Jones looks forward to this
year's event and the week-long whirl of auctions, exhibitions and parties it brings to London
Friday, 8 October 2010
As always, the proof will be in the purchasing, but signs that confidence has returned to the market can already
be found in the buzz around the traditional run of Frieze week auctions. At Christie's, Hirst will be auctioned
alongside two works by Gerhard Richter (valued at up to £1m) and, hollow laugh, Andreas Gursky's
photomontage of the New York Stock Exchange, last seen hanging in the boardroom at Lehman Brothers
(estimate: £100,000 – £150,000). Sotheby's has Jerry Hall's extraordinary collection up for sale – including work by
Frank Auerbach, Lucian Freud and Andy Warhol. And Phillips de Pury will hope to break the £1m mark with David
Hockney's Autumn Pool while Maurizio Cattelan's Una Domenica a Rivara, a rope of knotted bedsheets to hang
from a window, is estimated to sell at £400,000 to £600,000. Elsewhere, in a bold new addition to the landscape,
£20m-worth of art will go on sale in an 18th-century mansion part-owned by the Russian real-estate billionaire
Sergei Polonsky. The House of the Noble Man, a stone's throw from Frieze in Cornwall Terrace, is curated by
Victoria Golembiovskaya and the artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and will include four rare Picassos and Cezanne's
Don Quixote.
For all of these and more, the international arterati will descend on London next week, jetting in from the
traditional hot spots of New York, Berlin and Moscow, as well as from the emerging collector territories of the
Middle East, India and China for what is now known simply as Frieze week. It's no longer just about the fair; a
whole city's-worth of cultural activity has coalesced around those big white marquees. The breakfast views are
booked in, the big museum shows are up and the parties – from a Frieze week opener at the Groucho Club to the
ritzy annual Cartier dinner at Bar Boulud and ArtReview's Power 100 party at Sketch – are planned. After its initial
struggles, the hype-filled boom years and fear-filled bust years, Frieze is now firmly established, an unmissable
stop-off between Basel and Miami on the global art calendar. A decade ago, London didn't even have its own
contemporary art fair. Now, for five days in mid- October, the art set wouldn't dream of being anywhere else.
20
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.artofficialspace.co.uk/exhibitions.htm
Exhibitions
Upcoming Shows
House of the Nobleman
f/ Ben Grainger & Sean Penlington
Friday 15th - 20th October, 2010
2 Cornwall Terrace,
London, NW1 4QP
www.saatchigallery.com/4newsensations
Past Shows
How It All Worked Out @ International 3
f/ Ben Grainger & Sean Penlington
Saturday 10th - 30th July, 2010
The International 3
8 Fairfield st
Manchester
UK
M1 3GF
Opening night on the 9th @ 6:00pm
21
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.bernardevans.co.uk/artNews.php?nlId=2728
The Art Market: a house party
2010-Oct-11
By Georgina Adam www.google.co.uk
“Frieze week” kicks off this week in London, drawing the cream of the art world to Britain’s capital.
It is centred of course on the fair that started it all (Frieze opens to the public in Regent’s Park on
Thursday), but a host of satellite events are also on offer. One of the more intriguing is taking place
just down the road from the fair, at 2 Cornwall Terrace, part of an enormously expensive real estate
project being developed and sold.
In what appears to be a sophisticated way of selling both art and the property, the 18th-century
mansion is being used as a temporary venue for an exhibition entitled The House of the Nobleman,
October 15-20. The format is hybrid, both commercial and non-commercial, with 68 works on show,
half of them loans from collectors – one is David Roberts, the rest are secret – the other half consisting
of works of art for sale.
The House of the Nobleman is curated by the artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz, who has teamed up with a
young Russian curator, Victoria Golembiovskaya. It is backed by Mirax, a Russian real estate company
that has a “significant but minority” stake in the Cromwell Terrace complex. Mirax belongs to a
Russian billionaire, Sergei Polonsky, but Mirax has been troubled since the financial recession and has
a reported $120m in debt; the firm did not respond to a request for comment. The eight houses in the
Cromwell Terrace complex are priced between £29m and £60m.
Various dealers, from the UK and elsewhere, are contributing works of art to the show; they range
from two paintings by Poussin to Picasso’s “Buste d’Homme à la Pipe” (1969), priced at £3m. Banksy,
Richter, Klein, Rodin, Cézanne and Warhol are the unlikely bedfellows in the show, which includes two
works by Von Lenkiewicz himself (at £60,000 and £50,000) and about 22 consigned by Charles Saatchi.
While entry is free, visitors must register for admission (www.cornwallterrace.co.uk); they will be
taken around in groups of 50, according to the curators.
22
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://magazine.saatchionline.com/top-10-shows/editor%E2%80%99s-pick-%E2%80%93-top-international-shows
Editor’s Pick – Top International Shows
By Rebecca Wilson · October 11, 2010 · Top 10 Shows, Worldwide ·
Frieze Art Fair
October 14 – 17, 2010
Regent’s Park London NW1
http://www.friezeartfair.com/
It’s Frieze Week once again with 170 galleries from around the world presenting their artists at the fair. There are
also talks by Wolfgang Tilmanns, Thomas Demand, Jeremy Deller and Bridget Riley, plus an exciting music and film
programme. With Zoo not happening this year, the best emerging artists will be found at Sunday, a new fair at P3
Ambika space on Marylebone Road (just a stone’s throw from Regent’s Park) and supported by the Zabludowicz
Collection.
New Sensations 2010
15-20 October 2010
2 Cornwall Terrace London NW1
www.saatchigallery.com/4ns
This year’s New Sensations show, featuring 20 recent graduates shortlisted for the Saatchi Gallery and Channel 4′s
prize for art students, is taking place on Cornwall Terrace overlooking Regent’s Park as part of a much larger
exhibition, ‘The House of the Nobleman’ which showcases many remarkable works form private collections by
artists such as Picasso, Beuys, Kippenberger, Hirst, and Gupta. New Sensations offers a fantastic opportunity to
buy works by bright stars of the future.
23
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.quintessentially.com/insider/tag/london-art-gallery/
Posts Tagged ‘london art gallery’
The Inferno in the Frieze
Thursday, October 14th, 2010
As Frieze mania draws to a close, the capital is playing host to a number of enthralling and original surrounding
exhibitions and events this weekend.
The labyrinth of tunnels beneath Waterloo Station have been taken over by the Lazarides Gallery, who have
installed a mind blowing exhibition called ‘Hell’s Half Acre’. The space has been transformed into a large-scale
evocation of Dante’s literary masterpiece Inferno in which a group of young, cutting-edge artists have produced a
multi-sensory interpretation of hell, a strange consort of voodoo dolls, taxidermy, suspended bodies and barking
staffies. For something a little lighter, seek out Conor Harrington’s fleet of suspended model ships and their
shadows, as well a Jonathan Yeo nude in 3D. Until 17th October.
Catch the ‘Anticipation Show’ in Selfridges’ Ultra-lounge. It has fast become a celebrated, annual showcase of the
hottest artists of the moment, and is curated by Kay Saatchi and Catriona Warren. Photographers Noemie Goudal
and Robin Friend make stunning contributions with their antithetical takes on the natural landscape. And painter
Robert Dowling is no doubt a star in the making material with his clean, monochromatic wall pieces. With
arresting video installations and jaw dropping sculptural work from Blue Curry on show too, get yourself down
there for a glimpse of the future. Until 10th November.
For a star studded affair with big names and big pieces, check out ‘The House of the Nobleman’. A special
exhibition curated by ‘All Visual Arts’ Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria Golembiovskaya, you’ll see heralded
gems from the likes of Edouard Manet and Picasso jostle alongside iconic Yves Klein and Ron Arad design pieces.
The makers and shakers of Modern and Contemporary art await your perusal. Rarely will see you such a
heavyweight list of artists all showing under one roof. Until 20th October at Boswall House, 2 Cornwall Terrace,
Regent’s Park, NW1. By appointment only.
www.cornwallterrace.co.uk/boswallhouse.
24
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.rossmbrown.co.uk/articles.html
News
Saatchi New Sensations 2010
28/09/10
I have been selected to exhibit at the Saatchi/Channel 4 New Sensations show in London alongside 20 other
graduates from across the country.
The exhibition will be held at 2 Cornwall Terrace next to Regent's Park from the 14th to the 20th of October. New
Sensations will be on display alongside the exhibition "The House of the Noble Man", curated by Wolfe von
Lenkiewicz.
25
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.4rss.com/cadogan-tate-sponsors-new-sensations-art-exhibition.html
Cadogan Tate Sponsors ‘New Sensations’ Art Exhibition
(PRWEB) October 17, 2010
Cadogan Tate, the world class art moving, storage and shipping specialist in contemporary art, has sponsored the
‘New Sensations 2010’ exhibition for UK art students. Organised by Channel 4 and The Saatchi Gallery, this
prestigious event aims to discover the most imaginative and talented artists graduating from BA and MA courses
in the UK and to support students leaving art college.
A total of 20 students were shortlisted to present their work in the exhibition. This is being held at Boswall House,
2 Cornwall Terrace - a magnificent 18th century building off Regent’s Park - from 14th to 20th October. The event
forms part of ‘The House of the Nobleman’, under the curatorship of Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria
Golembiovskaya.
Four of the finalists in New Sensations 2010 - Pablo Wendel, Katie Surridge, Nika Neelova and Ula Wiznerowicz -
have each been given a bursary to develop a new work for the exhibition. A short film about each of them was
aired on Channel 4 in early October.
Stephen Glynn, Cadogan Tate’s Fine Art Director, comments: “We are delighted to be the sponsors of this
important exhibition, which showcases the talent of some remarkable young artists. We have spent many years
transporting and storing the world's most precious contemporary art for leading museums, galleries and
collectors. It therefore seemed very appropriate that we should support and encourage the UK’s leading art
students through this exciting event.”
26
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/artinfo/artinfo-uks-guide-to-frie_b_759911.html
ARTINFO UK's Guide to Frieze Week 2010
Posted: October 12, 2010 03:11 PM
Frieze Week is upon us! Europe's largest contemporary art fair has staked its tent in Regent's Park, bringing with it
an estimated $375 million in work by brand-name artists and emerging talents alike, and London is seething with
exhibitions and events to welcome the collectors, tastemakers, and various art grandees descending on the city.
What to see? Where to go? ARTINFO UK has a few recommendations.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14
You've done Tate Britain, do you really need to go to Tate Modern? Of course you do. First, the newly opened
Gauguin exhibition is stunning and simply impossible to miss (it has been described by the Times as "the show of
the season -- in fact of the whole year). Second, the new commission by Ai Weiwei, was recently unveiled in
Turbine Hall. You can then head north to enjoy Fergus Henderson's English cuisine at St. John Bar & Restaurant in
Smithfield, before wandering to ROKEBY for their exhibition of German-born, London-based artist Bettina Buck.
Today is also a good day to see "The House of the Noble Man," an exhibition curated by artist Wolfe von
Lenkiewicz and Russian curator Victoria Golembiovskayan. It includes a Cézanne, £6 million ($9.6 million) worth of
Picasso, as well as pieces by Damien Hirst, Christian Boltanski, Andy Warhol, Gerhard Richter, and many more --
all in the historical setting of Cornwall Terrace as it overlooks Regent's Park. (This event is by appointment only at
Boswell House, 2 Cornwall Terrace, Regents Park, London NW1. To arrange a visit, register at:
http://www.cornwallterrace.co.uk/boswallhouse/).
27
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.euro2day.gr/ftcom_en/126/articles/607101/ArticleFTen.aspx
The Art Market: a house party
Published: 21:54 - 06/10/10
The tabular content relating to this article is not available to view. Apologies in advance for the inconvenience
caused.
"Frieze week" kicks off this week in London, drawing the cream of the art world to Britain's capital. It is centred of
course on the fair that started it all (Frieze opens to the public in Regent's Park on Thursday), but a host of
satellite events are also on offer. One of the more intriguing is taking place just down the road from the fair, at 2
Cornwall Terrace, part of an enormously expensive real estate project being developed and sold.
In what appears to be a sophisticated way of selling both art and the property, the 18th-century mansion is being
used as a temporary venue for an exhibition entitled The House of the Nobleman, October 15-20. The format is
hybrid, both commercial and non-commercial, with 68 works on show, half of them loans from collectors - one is
David Roberts, the rest are secret - the other half consisting of works of art for sale.
The House of the Nobleman is curated by the artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz, who has teamed up with a young
Russian curator, Victoria Golembiovskaya. It is backed by Mirax, a Russian real estate company that has a
"significant but minority" stake in the Cromwell Terrace complex. Mirax belongs to a Russian billionaire, Sergei
Polonsky, but Mirax has been troubled since the financial recession and has a reported $120m in debt; the firm
did not respond to a request for comment. The eight houses in the Cromwell Terrace complex are priced between
£29m and £60m.
Various dealers, from the UK and elsewhere, are contributing works of art to the show; they range from two
paintings by Poussin to Picasso's "Buste d'Homme à la Pipe" (1969), priced at £3m. Banksy, Richter, Klein, Rodin,
Cézanne and Warhol are the unlikely bedfellows in the show, which includes two works by Von Lenkiewicz himself
(at £60,000 and £50,000). While entry is free, visitors must register for admission (www.cornwallterrace.co.uk);
they will be taken around in groups of 50, according to the curators.
28
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://markets.financialcontent.com/stocks/news/read?GUID=15146274
Cadogan Tate Sponsors 'New Sensations' Art Exhibition
Sunday October 17, 2010 - 06:04 AM EDT
Cadogan Tate, the world class art moving, storage and shipping specialist in contemporary art
(http://www.cadogantate.com/fineart/contemporary-art-services.html), has sponsored the 'New Sensations
2010' exhibition for UK art students. Organised by Channel 4 and The Saatchi Gallery, this prestigious event aims
to discover the most imaginative and talented artists graduating from BA and MA courses in the UK and to
support students leaving art college.
A total of 20 students were shortlisted to present their work in the exhibition. This is being held at Boswall House,
2 Cornwall Terrace - a magnificent 18th century building off Regent's Park - from 14th to 20th October. The event
forms part of 'The House of the Nobleman', under the curatorship of Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria
Golembiovskaya.
Four of the finalists in New Sensations 2010 - Pablo Wendel, Katie Surridge, Nika Neelova and Ula Wiznerowicz -
have each been given a bursary to develop a new work for the exhibition. A short film about each of them was
aired on Channel 4 in early October.
Stephen Glynn, Cadogan Tate's Fine Art (http://www.cadogantate.com/fineart/) Director, comments: "We are
delighted to be the sponsors of this important exhibition, which showcases the talent of some remarkable young
artists. We have spent many years transporting and storing the world's most precious contemporary art for
leading museums, galleries and collectors. It therefore seemed very appropriate that we should support and
encourage the UK's leading art students through this exciting event."
Read the full story at http://www.prweb.com/releases/2010/10/prweb4659384.htm.
29
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://the-original-neonneon.blogspot.com/2010_10_01_archive.html
The Neon Art of Tracey Emin
Monday, 11 October 2010
Last Friday was spent at 2 Cornwall Terrace, London NW1 next to Regent's Park installing "I Kiss You" by Tracey
Emin for "The House of the Nobleman" art exhibition running from October 15th-20th and coinciding with the
Frieze Art Fair. Curated by artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria Golembiovskaya the show comprises 68 works
of art from both private collectors and art dealers including works by Picasso, Poussin, Rodin, Cezanne, Warhol,
Banksy and of course Tracey Emin.
Entry to the exhibition is free but you will need to register for admission. Well worth a look if you are going to
Frieze.
30
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://stuartblakley.blogspot.com/2010/10/house-of-nobleman.html
The House of the Nobleman
Yes But Is It Art?
An Elegant Madness: High Society in Regency England
Saturday morning. What to do what to do? Fortunately a rather nice invite has arrived to the mysteriously named
House of the Nobleman. It's Before Midday and North of The River but said nobleman is allegedly a Russian
billionaire so it's hard to say no. Plus champers and canapés are champers and canapés. And it’s a gallery in a
house so really we have to check out the competition.
http://www.oakmayneproperties.com
“Highlight of Freeze!” shouts the press release. We’ll see. First impressions are good. The house is on the Outer
Circle of The Regent’s Park and just like the theatre that’s the place to be hot. Important looking girl asks us have
we been invited. “Qu’est-ce que c’est?”
Indoors, the ceilings are surprisingly low for us six footers. The interior designer clearly has a penchant for egg-&-
dart cornicing. It’s everywhere, except where it’s broken by over-scaled doors. Marble bathrooms, lit stair treads,
shiny black kitchen. It’s all a bit bling for Lavender’s Blue taste and we don’t really do Post 1900 anyway.
But my gosh the art on display reads like a Who’s Who list. Here’s a tour:
"Is it Art or is it a Chair?" asks Zelda in a loud stage whisper
But where's the Bubbly?
When Alvar met Andy on the landing
31
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.olyviafineart.com/blog/?cat=1
The House of a Noble Man
Posted on October 14, 2010 by admin
Olyvia Fine Art invites you to the exhibition “The House of a Noble Man” , where we’ll be exhibiting some works
by Andy Warhol. THE HOUSE OF A NOBLE MAN 15 – 20 October 2010 Boswall House, 2 Cornwall Terrace, …
Continue reading →
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
Diplomat Magazine, October 2010
Posted on October 12, 2010 by admin
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
Evening Standard Magazine, September 2010
Posted on October 12, 2010 by admin
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
Must have, Must See, Must Do … Daily Mail 19/10/2010
Posted on October 4, 2010 by admin
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment
“An Intimate Exhibition … on an Influential Movement” Shortlist Magazine
Posted on September 16, 2010 by admin
32
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://artbistro.monster.com/news/articles/11590-6m-worth-of-picassos-to-go-on-show-during-frieze
£6m worth of Picassos to go on show during Frieze
Gareth Harris, October 15, 2010
Four rare works by Picasso thought to be worth over £6m and an 1875 Cézanne oil on canvas will go on sale
during Frieze week next month in an ambitious exhibition to be held at a London property part owned by a
Russian billionaire. The show, entitled "The House of the Noble Man" (12-20 October), will open at 2 Cornwall
Terrace, an 18th-century building off Regent's Park in London near to the Frieze Art Fair site. The exhibition is
curated by artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz, whose works will feature in the display, and Russian curator Victoria
Golembiovskaya. Around £20m worth of art will be for sale, approximately a third of the show, confirms Von
Lenkiewicz.
According to the co-curator, the Picasso pieces on offer will include Buste d'Homme à la Pipe (1969, priced at
£3m); the 1905 drawing The Family of Saltimbanques and a cubist painting, Nature Morte au Gobelet (around
1914). An 1875 oil on canvas by Cézanne, Don Quixote, is priced at £1.25m. Works by Yves Klein, Egon Schiele,
Gerhard Richter, Damien Hirst and Andy Warhol will also be for sale. Von Lenkiewicz's own works will be in the
£30,000-£60,000 price range. "The Picassos etc. are from anonymous dealers who will take their portion of the
percentages. Any other proceeds made during the show will go back into the funding of the exhibition which is
hugely expensive despite its sponsorship [by the Russian real estate company Mirax]," adds Von Lenkiewicz. A
selection of works from Charles Saatchi's "New Sensations 2010" roster of emerging artists will also be for sale.
Twenty students shortlisted for the prize, which is sponsored by Cadogan Tate, have been chosen to present their
work; these artists include Matthew Welch, Katie Sims and Pablo Wendel. A non-selling section will include works
from the London-based Zabludowicz Collection and the holdings of the Iraqi-born industrialist Ragdan El-akabi.
"The show came about when I was in Moscow exhibiting my work at Triumph Gallery. Victoria took me to the
Mirax city project, a huge development in central Moscow. She talked to Sergei Polonsky [head of Mirax] about
the Cornwall Terrace buildings which he has shares in. He was willing to sponsor the show," says Von Lenkiewicz.
The Mirax group are co-developers of the Cornwall Terrace historical complex, parts of which are up for sale.
Ironically the exhibition, awash with blue-chip items, is meant to reflect the typical tastes of a 21st-century
collector who may well treat art as a commodity. "The notion of the noble man with sangre azul, [with] blue
blood developing a blue-grey skin tone from eating off the family silver, has prevailed for centuries. But this idea
is bankrupt, outmoded. Our collector spends his days and nights bathed in the blue light of a computer screen, as
he trades in dematerialised securities, or price options based on weather conditions on the other side of the
globe," according to a press statement. "It is important that the show comes across strongly as a curatorial
concept playing with the idea of commerce, mirroring the [art] market with irony. We based the idea around
nobility and bankrupt values in a post humanist age," says Von Lenkiewicz.
33
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.alyngriffiths.com/scene/2010/10/the-house-of-the-noble-man/
The House of the Noble Man
October 18th, 2010
This presentation of works by some of the world’s best known artists was intended more as a showcase for the
incredible property in which it took place than for the art itself. The eight residences in this newly redeveloped
Regency terrace happen to be on the market at the moment and, with the Frieze Art Fair taking place a stone’s
throw away in Regent’s Park, this was a perfect opportunity to entice wealthy collectors to view a potential home
or pied-à-terre.
The House of the Noble Man is supposed to evoke the home of a fictitious 21st century merchant – a digital
tycoon, trader and investor who collects art as a way of lending materiality to his otherwise transient and
ethereal existence.
Only the best will do in this sort of setting and curators Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria Golembiovskaya
managed to procure an astonishing selection of pieces including paintings, sculpture and installation works by
Yves Klein, Alexander Calder, Gerhard Richter, Andy Warhol, Damien Hirst, Tracey Emin and Banksy.
Contemporary design furniture from Carpenters Workshop Gallery helped to remind the visitor that you were in a
home rather than a gallery.
Also included in the presentation were the works of the four finalists from Channel 4 and the Saatchi Gallery’s
New Sensations 2010, a prize for artists graduating from UK art courses.
It would be impossible not to be impressed by the ambition and quality of this presentation and it certainly
provided a refreshingly serene and luxurious experience in comparison to the mêlée down the road at Frieze.
However, there was something uncomfortable about viewing all of this wonderful art in what was, in essence, the
world’s most expensive show home. I guess the true success of this exhibition will be determined by whether any
of the properties sell and, for me, art should be treated as more than a sales tool.
34
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.zabludowiczcollection.com/collection/art-diary/2010/11/paris-new-york-london
Anita’s Art Diay
Tuesday 02 November 2010
We made it to Paris for fiac which as usual was a delightfully elegant experience. Paris for the day by
Eurostar is so easy. Everyone was smiling, happy and friendly.
We loved at Mitchell-Innes & Nash William Pope. L’s performance: three world leaders holding a hugelooking
meteorite excreting dye all over them at their own command......
Francis Chantala would not let me look at the Josh Smith paintings he was being most difficult.
There are some strange sights at art fairs: a woman artist dragging around a Louis Vuitton dustbin.
Perhaps she was hoping someone would drop in a nice little unwanted designer package into her bin.
We dropped by to see Jim Lambie in his show in Paris. My amazing designer friend Jean Pierre Tortil,
Elliot Mcdonald and Jim.
Back to London and we visited Wolfe Lenkiewicz at his show The House of the Noble Man. It was a very
lovely show in a lavish £50 million home in Regents Park.
We found on the top floor a lovely work by Matthew Welch called In The Glass Coffin of the Virgin
Forest, the artist was one of Channel 4s New Sensations.
35
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.theglassmagazine.com/forum/article.asp?tid=1968#title
frieze art fair: a glass guide
Our online art team pick out what – and who – to watch out for at this year’s fair
Posted: 12 October 2010
Despite the difficult last two years, Frieze is playing host to some big numbers this time around. Christie's will hold
its annual October Post-War and Contemporary Art evening auction, with the top lot - I Am Become Death,
Shatterer of Worlds, a butterfly canvas by Damien Hirst – going for an estimated £2.5m-£3.5m. Other notable
sales to watch out for are Andreas Gursky's photomontage of the New York Stock Exchange, last seen hanging in
the boardroom at Lehman Brothers (estimate: £100,000 – £150,000), and Sotheby’s sales from Jerry Hall's
extraordinary collection, which includes work by Frank Auerbach, Lucian Freud and Andy Warhol.
The fair’s fringe is looking more diverse than ever this year. For quiet classicism, The House of the Noble Man, a
stone's throw away in Cornwall Terrace, is a definite highlight. Curated by Victoria Golembiovskaya and the artist
Wolfe von Lenkiewicz, it will include four rare Picassos and Cezanne's Don Quixote. Meanwhile, purveyors
looking for modern artist-led work should head to Screening. An independent art exhibition on 203-205
Brompton Road – a purpose-built exhibition space within a Knightsbridge office block – rising stars will be
showing alongside heavyweight Toby Ziegler and much-talked about video artist Ryan Trecartin. The temporal
format of video art will be considered in this sprawling building as an extension of work on canvas – with the help
of some of London’s brightest new young painters.
There are a few satellite fairs for the collectors craving boutique shopping after getting an eyeful at the main
event. The Pavilion of Art and Design will be returning to Berkeley Square, Mayfair, for the fourth year running,
featuring 50 distinguished international dealers of modern art, design, decorative arts, photography, jewellery
and tribal art. SUNDAY, a free three-day event in Marylebone's Ambika P3, is shaping up to be an intriguing
replacement to Zoo,, according to the Independent. Sponsored by the Zabludowicz Collection, it features 20 upand-coming
galleries from all over the world. Whitechapel Gallery is also making some noise on the periphery,
displaying works from the D.Daskalopoulos collection in Greece – one of the foremost collections of
contemporary art in Europe.
Syma Tariq, art editor
36
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.prweb.com/releases/2010/10/prweb4659384.htm
Cadogan Tate Sponsors ‘New Sensations’ Art Exhibition
Cadogan Tate, the world class art moving, storage and shipping specialist in contemporary art, has sponsored
the ‘New Sensations 2010’ exhibition for UK art students. Organised by Channel 4 and The Saatchi Gallery, this
prestigious event aims to discover the most imaginative and talented artists graduating from BA and MA
courses in the UK and to support students leaving art college.
We have spent many years transporting and storing the world's most precious contemporary art for leading
museums, galleries and collectors.
(PRWEB) October 17, 2010
Cadogan Tate, the world class art moving, storage and shipping specialist in contemporary art, has sponsored the
‘New Sensations 2010’ exhibition for UK art students. Organised by Channel 4 and The Saatchi Gallery, this
prestigious event aims to discover the most imaginative and talented artists graduating from BA and MA courses
in the UK and to support students leaving art college.
A total of 20 students were shortlisted to present their work in the exhibition. This is being held at Boswall House,
2 Cornwall Terrace - a magnificent 18th century building off Regent’s Park - from 14th to 20th October. The event
forms part of ‘The House of the Nobleman’, under the curatorship of Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria
Golembiovskaya.
Four of the finalists in New Sensations 2010 - Pablo Wendel, Katie Surridge, Nika Neelova and Ula Wiznerowicz -
have each been given a bursary to develop a new work for the exhibition. A short film about each of them was
aired on Channel 4 in early October. Stephen Glynn, Cadogan Tate’s Fine Art Director, comments: “We are
delighted to be the sponsors of this important exhibition, which showcases the talent of some remarkable young
artists. We have spent many years transporting and storing the world's most precious contemporary art for
leading museums, galleries and collectors. It therefore seemed very appropriate that we should support and
encourage the UK’s leading art students through this exciting event.”
37
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.cityam.com/lifestyle/books/the-art-world-heats-once-more
The art world heats up once more
Wednesday, 13th October 2010
Timothy Barber has a look around Frieze Art Fair, which opens to the public today
AS an army of glamorous art industry movers and shakers traipsed into Frieze Art Fair’s marquee yesterday, a
young woman was standing outside distributing paper leaflets for an upcoming exhibition. Not that surprising
perhaps – some galleries need all the help they can get publicising themselves – except that the gallery in
question was the Royal Academy. That London’s most august art institution should find itself flyering outside a
tent in Regent’s Park is one measure of the extent to which the capital’s art scene now triangulates itself around
Frieze.
There are others. The National Gallery’s new exhibition of works by the 18th century Venetian artist Canaletto has
coincided with Frieze this week; the merry-go-round of satellite exhibitions now includes one from The Saatchi
Gallery – its owner, Charles Saatchi, practically gave birth to London’s contemporary art scene as we know it, after
all – called The House of the Noble Man, in a residence near Frieze, which puts Cezanne, Manet, Poussin and
Picasso alongside Richter, Murakami and Hirst; and of course, Frieze now dictates the timing of the contemporary
art auctions that are the most immediate signifier of the health – or otherwise – of the art market.
As far as that goes, Anders Petterson, managing director of art market analyst ArtTactic, says the mood is
cautiously optimistic. After a rotten 2009, record-breaking February sales apparently signified a return to business
as normal, but momentum slowed in the summer with some shows falling significantly short.
“People got carried away with the rebound earlier in the year and sellers got a little greedy with the estimates
they demanded, so the summer sales were a bit down,” Petterson says. “Since then the market has revived a bit,
and people are being more realistic about the situation.”
38
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://source.yeeyan.org/view/180252_0bf/
FRIEZE 2010
luckyzhouxi 推荐于 2010-11-06 21:29:34
This year’s annual London Frieze 2010 was the strongest Frieze fair since the global economic collapse that began
in autumn 2008. Frieze 2010 saw noticeable increases in artwork sales activity; better certainly than the last two
Frieze fairs. Good or bad, these temporary exhibits in ritzy mansions in central London’s most expensive
neighborhoods, are a far cry from the gritty underground art happenings of earlier alternative venues.
Temporarily setting up in fashionablecentral London locales walking distance to Frieze’s fair grounds inside
Regent Park is admittedly an ultra commercial way to sell art.
After all, one might argue, the aim of selling art is the same whether in a humble fair booth, or an exaggerated
mansion. This author admits to attending two suchevents, one in a historic townhouse former embassy of an
African nation,[1] the other in a newly built super-luxury home with not only artwork for purchase but also the
venue – a newly built marble fixtured mansion in Regent’s Park itself for sale, with a price tag of50 million
dollars.[2] The former showed newly commissioned works made especially for the exhibition by a variety of
contemporary artists including Jake and Dinos Chapman, Tim Noble and Sue Webster and Wim Delvoye.
The latter showed everyone from Cezanne to Rodin to Zeng Fanzhi and Yin Zhaoyang, and felt more like a
collective effort of secondary market sale works consigned from various dealers and owners. The artworks one
assumes are used to make the house-for-sale more beautiful and presumably also more sale-able. Interesting
Russian contemporary works were also included, fueling rumors of Russian financial backing for the Regent’s Park
situated mansion-for sale-with-or-without- artworks.
MegMaggio
Beijing,October 2010
[1] See the aptly titled “Vanitas: The Transience of Earthly Pleasures”organized by All Visual Arts at 33 Portland
Place, London, W1B 1QE, www.allvisualarts.org
[2] See “The House of the Nobleman”, Boswall House, 2 Cornwell Terrace,Regent’s Park, London, NW1 4QP
39
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.benzinga.com/press-releases/10/10/p527693/cadogan-tate-sponsors-‘new-sensations-art-exhibition
Cadogan Tate Sponsors ‘New Sensations' Art Exhibition
Posted on 10/17/10 at 6:00am by webmaster
Cadogan Tate, the world class art moving, storage and shipping specialist in contemporary art, has sponsored the
‘New Sensations 2010' exhibition for UK art students. Organised by Channel 4 and The Saatchi Gallery, this
prestigious event aims to discover the most imaginative and talented artists graduating from BA and MA courses
in the UK and to support students leaving art college.
(PRWEB) October 17, 2010
Cadogan Tate, the world class art moving, storage and shipping specialist in contemporary art, has sponsored the
‘New Sensations 2010' exhibition for UK art students. Organised by Channel 4 and The Saatchi Gallery, this
prestigious event aims to discover the most imaginative and talented artists graduating from BA and MA courses
in the UK and to support students leaving art college.
A total of 20 students were shortlisted to present their work in the exhibition. This is being held at Boswall
House, 2 Cornwall Terrace - a magnificent 18th century building off Regent's Park - from 14th to 20th October.
The event forms part of ‘The House of the Nobleman', under the curatorship of Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria
Golembiovskaya.
Four of the finalists in New Sensations 2010 - Pablo Wendel, Katie Surridge, Nika Neelova and Ula Wiznerowicz -
have each been given a bursary to develop a new work for the exhibition. A short film about each of them was
aired on Channel 4 in early October.
Stephen Glynn, Cadogan Tate's Fine Art Director, comments: “We are delighted to be the sponsors of this
important exhibition, which showcases the talent of some remarkable young artists. We have spent many years
transporting and storing the world's most precious contemporary art for leading museums, galleries and
collectors. It therefore seemed very appropriate that we should support and encourage the UK's leading art
students through this exciting event.”
For the original version on PRWeb visit: http://www.prweb.com/releases/prweb2010/10/prweb4659384.htm
40
THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA
PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)
http://www.abodyofartshop.com/art-moran-body-shop/cadogan-tate-sponsors-new-sensations-artexhibition.html
Cadogan Tate Sponsors New Sensations Art Exhibition
October 18, 2010 by
Filed under art moran body shop
(PRWEB) October 17, 2010
Cadogan Tate, the world class art moving, storage and shipping specialist in contemporary art, has sponsored the
‘New Sensations 2010’ exhibition for UK art students. Organised by Channel 4 and The Saatchi Gallery, this
prestigious event aims to discover the most imaginative and talented artists graduating from BA and MA courses
in the UK and to support students leaving art college.
A total of 20 students were shortlisted to present their work in the exhibition. This is being held at Boswall House,
2 Cornwall Terrace – a magnificent 18th century building off Regent’s Park – from 14th to 20th October. The
event forms part of ‘The House of the Nobleman’, under the curatorship of Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria
Golembiovskaya.
Four of the finalists in New Sensations 2010 – Pablo Wendel, Katie Surridge, Nika Neelova and Ula Wiznerowicz –
have each been given a bursary to develop a new work for the exhibition. A short film about each of them was
aired on Channel 4 in early October.
Stephen Glynn, Cadogan Tate’s Fine Art Director, comments: “We are delighted to be the sponsors of this
important exhibition, which showcases the talent of some remarkable young artists. We have spent many years
transporting and storing the world’s most precious contemporary art for leading museums, galleries and
collectors. It therefore seemed very appropriate that we should support and encourage the UK’s leading art
students through this exciting event.”
41




