From: J [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 4/23/2019 12:58:06 PM 
To: Alan Dershowitz [1.1.11.110....ii]; Martin Weinberg [ 
Subject: Fwd: Announcing the 2019 Hillman Prize winners 
----------Forwarded message--------- 
From: The Sidney Hillman Foundation < 
Date: Tue, Apr 23, 2019 at 2:45 PM 
Congratulations to the 2019 Hillman Prize recipients! 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021113 
Sidney Hillman Foundation Names Winners of 2019 Prizes 
for Journalism in Service of the Common Good 
Reuters, NBC News and MSNBC, ProPublica Receive Honors; Adam Serwer to 
receive Opinion & Analysis Prize 
NEW YORK — The Sidney Hillman Foundation announced Tuesday winners of the 69th annual 
Hillman Prizes, recognizing a Reuters expose of slum-like living conditions on U.S military 
bases, the Miami Herald's investigation into Labor Secretary Alex Acosta's sweetheart deal with 
serial sex abuser, Jeffrey Epstein, and NBC News and MSNBC's reporting on the Trump 
Administration's family separation policy, among other standout reporting in service of the 
common good. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021114 
Hannah Dreier of ProPublica won a Hillman Prize for reporting that showed how the 
government's bungled crackdown on MS-13 has torn apart the lives of Latino immigrants. The 
Atlantic's Adam Serwer, who has emerged as a defining voice of the Trump era, won for his 
essays on racism and Trump's political movement, and Anna Clark won for her book on the 
Flint water crisis. 
This year's prizes were judged by writer Ta-Nehisi Coates, the New Yorker's Jelani Cobb, 
Reuters' Alb( Freedman, the New Yorker's Hendrik Hertzberg, the American Prospect's Harold 
Meyerson and The Nation's Katrina vanden Heuvel. 
The 2019 winners of the Hillman Prizes are: 
• Newspaper — Miami Herald, Julie K. Brown and Emily Michot: Perversion of Justice 
• Magazine — ProPublica with New York magazine, Newsday, This American Life, New 
York Times Magazine, Hannah Dreier: Trapped in Gangland 
• Web — Reuters, Joshua Schneyer, Michael Pell, Andrea Januta, Deborah Nelson: 
Ambushed at Home 
• Broadcast — NBC News and MSNBC, Jacob Soboroff and Julia Ainsley: Torn Apart: 
Crisis at the Border 
• Opinion & Analysis — Adam Serwer, The Atlantic 
• Book — Anna Clark: The Poisoned City: Flint's Water and the American Urban 
Tragedy, Metropolitan Books 
Reporting by this year's prize winners has had significant positive impact, including: 
• Reversal of the Trump administration's "Zero Tolerance" family separation policy 
• Three federal investigations, new legislation, widespread repairs, and a $386 million 
emergency program to inspect military housing for hazards 
• The exposure of pervasive bias and negligence by Long Island police, leading to federal 
and local investigations and reforms 
This year's honorees follow in the trailblazing tradition of past winners ranging from Murray 
Kempton in 1950 for his articles on labor in the south and Edward R. Murrow in 1954 for his 
critical reports on civil liberties and Joseph McCarthy at the height of the Red Scare; to 2017 
newspaper winner, David Fahrenthold, for exposing Donald Trump's sexual harassment and 
mismanagement of his foundation. 
The Hillman Prizes are open to journalists and subjects globally for any work widely accessible 
to a U.S. audience. Winners will be awarded a $5,000 prize at the Hillman Foundation's annual 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021115 
ceremony in New York City on May 7. 
"In a time when this country's highest powers have taken it as their business to demean the 
work of journalists, it is particularly significant for us to honor those who have taken up the 
tools of journalism to challenge corrupt power wherever it may reside," said Hillman judge Ta-
Nehisi Coates. 
In 2011, the Sidney Hillman Foundation inaugurated the Canadian Hillman Prize. This year's 
winners, Harvey Cashore, Bob McKeown and Kimberly Ivany of CBC's The Fifth Estate, won for 
their sweeping investigation into the research and regulatory failures that have put millions of 
children at risk on their way to and from school each day. Their reporting exposed fraudulent 
science behind Transport Canada's seminal seatbelt study and led the Transport Minister to 
form a task force with the provinces to look at implementing seatbelts on school buses across 
the country. 
The Hillman Foundation announced Monday that CUNY professor and historian, Joshua B. 
Freeman, is the recipient of its 2019 Sol Stetin Award for Labor History. Freeman has written 
extensively about the history of labor, industry, modern America, and New York City. The 
Hillman Foundation established the award in 2005 to honor a labor historian who has made 
significant contribution to the field, researching and telling the stories of working peoples' lives. 
Since 1950, the Hillman's Prizes for Journalism honor the legacy of Sidney Hillman, an 
immigrant who dedicated his life to a "better America." Hillman believed that a free press was 
essential to a fair and equal society. The Sidney Hillman Foundation has sought to carry on his 
legacy by honoring journalists who illuminate the great issues of our times—from the search for 
a basis for lasting peace, to the need for better housing, medical care, and employment security 
for all people, to the promotion of civil liberties and the battle against discrimination based on 
race, nationality, or religion. 
For more information, including to RSVP to the event, please contact Alexandra Lescaze at 646-
448-6413 or Alex@HillmanFoundation.org 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021116 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021117 
Share 
Tweet 
Forward 
View this email in your browser 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021118 
Copyright © 2019 The Sidney Hillman Foundation, All rights reserved. 
You are receiving this email because you opted in to our list. 
Our mailing address is: 
The Sidney Hillman Foundation 
330 W. 42nd St., Suite 900  
New York, NY 10036  
Add us to your address book 
unsubscribe from this list update subscription preferences 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021119 
