From: Steven Elkman 
Sent: 11/23/2011 5:29:30 PM 
Subject: Fw: Little Hodiaki [I] 
Classification: For internal use only 
Steven Munro Elkman 
Client Advisor 
Managing Director 
Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown 
A Division of Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. 
280 Park Avenue, 3 East 
New York, NY 10017 
phone 
fax 
Subject: Little Hodiaki 
The teacher said, "Let's begin by reviewing some American History. 
Who said 'Give me Liberty, or give me Death'?" 
She saw a sea of blank faces, except for Little Hodiaki a bright foreign 
exchange student from Japan, who had his hand up:'Patrick Henry, 1775' 
she said..'Very good!' 
Who said, 'Government of the People, by the People, for the People, shall 
not perish from the Earth?' 
Again, no response except from Little Hodiaki, 'Abraham Lincoln, 1863'.. 
'Excellent!', said the teacher continuing, 'let's try one a bit More difficult.: 
Who said, 'Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country?' 
Once again, Hodiaki's was the only hand in the air and he said;'John F. Kennedy, 1961'. 
The teacher snapped at the class, 'Class, you should be ashamed of yourselves, Little Hodiaki isn't from this 
country and he knows more about our history than you do.' 
She heard a loud whisper: fuck the Japs,' 
'Who said that? I want to know right now!' she angrily demanded. 
Little Hodiaki put his hand up, 'General MacArthur, 1945.' 
At that point, a student in the back said, 'I'm gonna puke.' 
The teacher glares around and asks, 'All right!!! Now who said that!?' 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030823 
Again, Little Hodiaki says, 'George Bush to the Japanese Prime Minister,1991.' 
Now furious, another student yells, 'Oh yeah? Suck this!' 
Little Hodiaki jumps out of his chair waving his hand and shouts to the teacher, 
'Bill Clinton, to Monica Lewinsky, 1997!' 
Now with almost mob hysteria someone said, 'You little shit. If you say anything else, I'll kill you.' 
Little Hodiaki frantically yells at the top of his voice,'Michael Jackson to the child witnesses testifying against 
him, 2004.' 
The teacher fainted. 
As the class gathered around the teacher on the floor, someone said,'Oh shit, We're screwed!' 
Little Hodiaki said quietly, 'the American people, November 4, 2008. 
Regards, 
jac 
0 
www.carbonacapital.com  
This communication may contain confidential and/or privileged information. 
If you are not the intended recipient (or have received this communication 
in error) please notify the sender immediately and destroy this 
communication. Any unauthorized copying, disclosure or distribution of the 
material in this communication is strictly forbidden. 
Deutsche Bank does not render legal or tax advice, and the information 
contained in this communication should not be regarded as such. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030824 
