From: Matthew Hiltzik [ 
Sent: 12/15/2018 6:40:52 PM 
To: Michael Wolff 
CC: Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com]; Kathy Ruemmler 
Subject: Re: 
Importance: High 
Darren Indyke 
Also think there should be a line in there somewhere which clearly confirms that JE understands and recognizes 
that he did something wrong 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Dec 15, 2018, at 12:03 PM, Michael Wolff < > wrote: 
Seems very good. Is there reason or opportunity here to evoke JE's Clinton connection? He had been publicly 
connected to the former President and became a proxy for the considerable anger at high levels of the Federal 
government that still surrounded Clinton. Likewise now, one reason to revive the story is that it is a way to tar a 
Trump administration official, who, in the normal course of his duties, happened to deal with the case. 
On Sat, Dec 15, 2018 at 11:28 AM J <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
thoughts. 
----------Forwarded message--------- 
From: Ken Starr < 
Date: Sat, Dec 15, 2018 at 11:24 AM 
Subject: Re: 
To: J <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Cc: Alan Dershowitz 
Here goes: 
"Sweetheart deal! " So goes the critique of the resolution of a long-ago case involving our former client -- and 
now-friend -- Jeffrey Epstein. The critique is profoundly misplaced, supported neither by the law or the facts, 
nor by the structure of our constitutional republic. To the contrary, Jeffrey was subjected to an unprecedented 
federal intrusion into a quintessentially local criminal matter in south Florida. His offense to the social order --
involving sex for hire -- was entirely a matter entrusted to laws of the several States, not the federal 
government. His conduct -- a classic state offense --was being treated exactly that way by able, honest 
prosecutors in Palm Beach County, but the overweening federal government intruded where it did not 
belong. And now, over ten years after the fact, the current assault on federal decision-makers at the time, 
including now-Secretary of Labor Alex Acosta (then the United States Attorney in south Florida), condemns 
the federal authorities for not going far enough. 
The critics are entirely wrong. Neither the facts nor the law support the misguided criticisms being leveled by 
journalists and politicians at federal officials from over a decade ago -- including the highest levels of the 
Justice Department in Washington, D.C.. 
Here are the key facts: Jeffrey Epstein, a successful self-made businessman with no prior criminal history 
whatever, engaged in illegal conduct that amounts to solicitation of prostitution. That was wrong, and it was 
reasonably viewed as a violation of Florida state law. Although no coercion, violence, alcohol, drugs and the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030255 
like were involved, the unsavory facts were carefully assessed by experienced state prosecutors who 
aggressively enforce state criminal laws. No one turned a blind eye to potential offenses to the public 
order. To the contrary, the Palm Beach State Attorney's Office conducted an extensive 15-month 
investigation, led by the chief of the Sex Crimes Division. Mr. Epstein was then indicted by a state grand jury 
on a single felony count of solicitation of prostitution. 
During that intense investigation, the state prosecutors extensively gathered and analyzed the evidence, met 
face-to-face with many of the asserted victims, considered their credibility -- or lack thereof -- and considered 
the extent of exculpatory evidence. Then, after months of elaborate negotiations, the state prosecutors believed 
they had reached a reasoned resolution of the matter that vindicated the public interest -- a resolution entirely 
consistent with that of cases involving other similarly-situated defendants. 
Then, in came the feds. The United States Attorney's Office tried, to no avail, to fit Mr. Epstein's situation into 
its vision of what it viewed as a commercial trafficking ring targeting minors. This was anything but. At long 
last, the federal authorities acknowledged that stark reality and grudgingly agreed to defer prosecution to the 
state. But there was a huge catch. In the face of our arguments sharply condemning their overreach, the 
federal prosecutors insisted on many unorthodox requirements that tugged at fundamental values of due 
process. For example, the agreement required Mr. Epstein to pay an undisclosed list of asserted victims 
$150,000 each. Even more, the feds insisted that Jeffrey pay for an attorney to represent such unidentified 
victims if any chose to filed civil litigation against him. When asked what possible legal authority supported 
this extravagant exercise of national power, the feds lamely cited a wildly inapposite case from Alaska 
involving cocaine and forced on-the-street prostitution. Apples and oranges. 
Under the federally-forced deal, Jeffrey was sentenced to jail. That would not have been the case under the 
agreed-upon state disposition of this non-violent, consensual commercial arrangement. Jeffrey complied, 
served that sentence, and in the process was treated exactly the same as other state-incarcerated 
individuals. His conduct was exemplary, and so characterized by the state custodial authorities. He continued 
his work, including his many philanthropic efforts. 
Our friend Jeffrey Epstein has paid his debt to society. He has also paid out millions of dollars to the asserted 
victims and their highly-creative lawyers. For over ten years, he has lived an exemplary life, including 
carrying on his wide-ranging philanthropies. Those of us who represented him in the Florida proceedings -- for 
customary professional fees -- now count him as a trusted friend. 
Our nation faces vitally important challenges, many involving the treatment of women and basic human 
dignity. Voices are rightly being raised speaking truth to power, especially about women in the 
workplace. But Jeffrey, an exemplary employer, has long since been called to account by the criminal justice 
system for his misdeeds of yesteryear. In the spirit of the bedrock American belief in second chances, that 
unhappy chapter in Jeffrey's otherwise-magnificent life should be allowed to close once and for all. 
On Thu, Dec 13, 2018 at 4:24 PM J <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
ken ,would take a stab at the article for the law journal. ? thx 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030256 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030257 
