Michael J. Boccio 
Garden City, NY 11530 / Phone E-Mail 
CAREER EXPERIENCE: 
• The Trump Organization (July 2008 - July 2011) 
Managing Director of Business Development and Special Counsel 
{2005RE-1:1} 
Global Licensing/Brand & Trademark Portfolio Management 
)=. Managed all aspects of the Global Product Licensing Division and trademark portfolio, as 
represented by the Donald J. Trump, Ivanka Trump and Melania brands. Responsibilities 
encompassed the management of a legal team consisting of multiple attorneys, a paralegal and 
executive assistant responsible for negotiating, drafting and maintenance of all license 
agreements. Liaised with outside IP counsel and hosted regular strategy meetings to determine 
the appropriate course of action for trademark filings, policing and office actions. 
Real Estate 
)=. Managed 75 home site development known as the Estates at Trump National in Rancho Palos 
Verdes, California. Set up the HOA board, was elected as a member of the HOA board, 
developed and executed the HOA budget, liaised with the California Department of Real Estate 
and successfully gained approval of the 2010 subdivision report and issuance of a white paper 
that permitted sales to resume at the site. Hired and managed brokerage team. Developed a 
revised housing strategy for future development, including adjustment of lot lines and 
architectural plans to meet the needs of the current market. Managed multiple negotiations and 
closings of homes and executed a strategy that permitted Trump to retain a $1.5 million dollar 
deposit for a custom built home in buyer default. Executed the acquisition and closing of 
previously leased land from the RPV school district, located in the center of the golf course 
and adjoining the property. 
)=. Developed a lease form for Trump International Chicago and negotiated leases, amendments 
and term sheets for the retail space. 
• Worked as part of a team that negotiated the purchase agreements and loan documentation for 
the purchase of three operating golf courses, as well as managed the diligence process and 
negotiation of multiple deals that remain in the pipeline or failed to close. 
• Negotiated and drafted multiple comprehensive term sheets and real estate license agreements 
that were ultimately placed on hold. 
• Acquisition of multiple residential properties. 
Aviation 
• Managed all aspects of the acquisition of a US registered Boeing 757 and the company holding 
the corresponding part 125 operating certificate, including the tax strategy and intercompany 
lease filed with the FAA. Negotiated contracts with Boeing, Rolls Royce, Honeywell and other 
vendors. Worked on a team that managed the complete renovation of the 757 and handled all 
associated legal work. Managed the disposition of a Bermuda registered Boeing 727 and the 
acquisition, renovation and subsequent leasing of Sikorsky S-76B, including negotiation of 
preferential use terms for owner and management of vendor and warranty relationships. 
Entertainment and Media 
• Negotiated book contracts, speech agreements, television contracts, location agreements for 
multiple movie and television commercials, appearance releases, photography shoots and 
limited use licenses. 
Law Firm Associate 
• Kaye Scholer LLP (July 2007-July 2008) 
)=. Represented institutional lenders in the origination and servicing of portfolio loans. Member 
of deal team that provided the financing for the sale/leaseback of 388/390 Greenwich Street 
from Citigroup to SL Green, the second largest NY deal of 2007. 
• Reviewed and abstracted commercial leases and negotiated SNDA's and estoppel certificates 
in conjunction with loan originations. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029302 
• Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP (March 2007-July 2007) 
• Represented institutional lenders in the origination of portfolio loans; represented 
developer/borrower in obtaining construction loan; represented firm clients in the negotiation 
and execution of multiple office leases. 
• Windels Marx Lane & Mittendorf, LLP (January 2006-February 2007) 
• Represented Lehman Brothers in the origination of over $500 million in senior, mezzanine and 
construction loans tailored for syndication or securitization. 
• Represented Lehman Brothers in the disposition of over $100 million in joint venture portfolio 
properties. Represented landlords in the sale of commercial and industrial properties. 
)=. Reviewed and abstracted commercial leases and negotiated SNDA's and estoppel certificates 
in conjunction with loan originations. 
• Carter Ledyard & Milburn LLP (August 2001-November 2005) 
)=. Represented institutional and individual clients with the acquisition/disposition of commercial 
and residential properties. 
• Represented one of the largest downtown landlords in the negotiation of leases and lease 
amendments (6 million total square feet of space in the Hudson Square and Ground Zero 
vicinity). 
)=. Performed due diligence on the real estate portfolios of target companies in merger 
transactions. 
• Represented institutional borrowers and lenders in the origination, negotiation and refinance of 
senior and mezzanine loans and revolving lines of credit. Represented trust company in 
origination of loans to high net worth clients. 
Memberships 
>. Associate Development Committee, Hiring Committee, Practice Development Committee, 
Summer Events Planning Committee and Associate Mentor Program. 
EDUCATION: 
Fordham University School of Law, New York, NY 
Juris Doctor, May 2001, Dean's List 
State University of New York at Stony Brook, Honors College, Stony Brook, NY 
B.A., Honors Economics, December 1997, Cum Laude / Dean's List 
4.0 G.P.A. in Economics 
Teaching assistant: Microeconomics (Spring 1997) and Macroeconomics (Fall 1997) 
PUBLICATION: 
• Commercial Law Leasing and Strategy: "Rent Abatement Clauses, Tenants Should Speak Softly, But 
Draft a Big 'Club" Volume 20, Number 7 (December 2007) 
REFERENCE OF DONALD I TRUMP AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST 
{2005RE -1:1} 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029303 
