                     Trump; Prince of Believers (Caliph)!
Abdulnaser Salamah


http://www.almasryalyoum.com/news/details/1133143



 I cannot accommodate that an American president – whatever his name - comes to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to hold a summit meeting with the Kingdom’s king, and then gulf’s leaders come together to hold a summit meeting with him, and then the leaders of Arab and Islamic states come to hold a summit meeting with him. Is this because the American president has no time to host them in the White House, where he rules, so those all leaders met him in the kingdom?
 I cannot accommodate with this status unless this person was the prince of believers or (Caliph) who has the right and power to gather the rulers of states in whatever place he choose in the Caliphate or any of its palaces. 


 Following the example of Caliphs, the rulers ware not know the reason behind this meeting or its subject. They also were not know the instructions or orders he carried from the far reaches of the Caliphate. In this case they are as like as the public. All information is available that the Caliph not only feels angry with the rulers, but also puts his eyes on the wealth at their hands. During his election campaign, he literally said, “Saudi Arabia is just like 'a milk cow' and we will slaughter it when its milk runs out”. He may announce increase of the annual attribute provided by every rulers. Also, he may announce administrative redistribution of the states. Moreover, he may spreads his teeth regarding the new rules of the rulers. This may be through involving them in land wars against each other and not against their real enemy, as he is on his way to Israel; and you do not know what Israel is?! 


 The new Caliphate does not hide that he want to empower Israel more and more, to cover from Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, all the Levant, Arabian Island and Persia lands. Therefore, he is going to leave from the lands of Hijaz to the Palestinian occupied lands before leaving to Vatican. He clearly refers to that it is a political tour with religious purposes. It will comes to our ears, all the time, expressions like terrorism, extremism, stiffness, sects, Sunni Islam, Shiite Axis and other expressions that cause more dilemmas and allies in the region. However, the visit is covered by the title of “Mutual Interests”. 


 I wish we would not live this day or witness a status in which the Arab and Islamic leaders run rapidly to a person who does not hide his aggressive feelings towards Arabs and Muslims. At least, I would like to see pre-coordination meetings result in declared demands regarding the region’s cases, headed by the case of ending the Israeli occupation of Arab lands. I hoped to see demands include US non-interference in the affairs of the region, especially in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Libya. I hoped to see Arabic demands to compensate Iraq for its devastation out of US invasion, compensate Syria for the damages resulted by the US-made ISIS and compensate Yemen and Libya for the bombing and sabotage they face. 


 What is certain is that the Arab people from the ocean to gulf is holding his breath and waiting with great concern what will result from these meetings and the new catastrophes may take place in the region after creative chaos, destructive chaos, endless chaos and the new Middle East. Besides, they ask whether there is anything coherent in the region to be targeted by this suspicious visit, especially that all information confirm imposing new overpriced royalties on specific states. This is through instructions issued directly from the White House. Accordingly, there was no need to visit just to ink more weapon contracts unless the matter is greater than all expectations similar to the deal of century, millennium initiative and other useless contracts of acquiescence. 


 Therefore, we cannot breathe a sigh of relief unless there is transparency from leaders in dealing openly and frankly with their people about all things in the official circles. The people may be surprised in the future with a new “Sykes-Picot Agreement”, other “Balfour Declaration” or even other “1967” and we have lessons in the history of ancestors. The treachery and collusion have been discovered since 1948 until now make us fear everything and doubt in everything especially that there are clear signs in the horizon. 


 	Unfortunately, the plotters, in Egypt and other Arab countries, will preach and promote to such visit and meetings as the savior of the region of its pests. They will ignore the recent and distance past experiences, depending on the weak Arabic memory. This matter should be warned in the light of Russian-US conflict on the dominance in Syria, Saudi-Iranian conflict on the dominance in Yemen, Sunni-Shiite conflict on the dominance in Iraq and Lebanon, and the Israeli presence in the region. All of these mentioned conflicts are made by the United States. Accordingly, should we depend on Donald Trump or the new prince of believers (Caliph)?! 


 Anyway, I want to remind you that Trump said: “I will get the Gulf states, who are not doing much, believe me. The Gulf states have nothing but money. I’m going to get them to pay. We owe 19 trillion, we’re not paying for it. Don’t forget, without us, the Gulf states won’t exist.”









