Basic Policy Plan of the Convention
* Unauthorized use of information, postings and distributions are strictly prohibited. For information, please contact the Nobel Charitable Trust at info@nobelcharitabletrust.org
0
NCT Convention
Nobel Charitable Trust Earth Environment Convention (tentative), hosted by NCT
A convention will be hosted for developers (organizations and corporations) of eco-friendly products and renewable,
alternative and sustainable energy developments from around the world to exhibit their products at the time the winner of the
NCT Energy Award (and the other awards) are announced. Visitors and judges from the Judging Committee will select , .
from the exhibited products of the exhibitors ( organizations and corporations) , the best corporation or exhibitor of the year
and an accreditation mark (NCT No.1010) or award will be granted.
Convention Name
A convention will be hosted for developers (organizations and corporations) worldwide, of
eco-friendly products and new energies from around the world to exhibit their products at
Nobel Earth Environment Convention (tentative)
the time the winner of the NCT Energy Award (and the other awards) is announced.
Event visitors and NCT trustees will select the best corporation or exhibitor for that year
Theme
and an accreditation (NCT-1010) or award will be granted.
”Environment and Technology, Looking to the Future of the Next Generation”
◆By providing grants to efforts in the fields of natural conservation, natural resources and energy, education, culture and other
relevant areas, NCT hopes to contribute to the creation of a stable protected environment and promote sustainable development of
our societies NCT aims to promote and encourage travels to Japan as well as assisting Japan to become the world’s leader in
environmental issues and environmental technologies.
◆NCT will support activities to improve children’s environments and education conditions around the world as children are the source
of our future energy.
1
Purpose of the Convention
Nobel Charitable Trust Earth Environment Convention (tentative)
■NCT will host the awards and convention.
Hosting Awards and the Convention
■Hosting the convention is not NCT’s ultimate objective. Rather, NCT strives to promote excellent energy
efficient products and the development of renewable, alternative and sustainable energy resources through the
convention and to financially support corporations and individual(s) aiming to develop such products.
Right to Carry the Accreditation Mark
■Awarded products will have the right to carry the NCT accreditation mark (NCT No.1234).
■Awarded products will enjoy high status and recognition as a product accredited by the prestigious Nobel
Charitable Trust, giving it a significant advantage in expanding its market.
Participants (Exhibitors)
■Corporations from all over the world supporting NCT’s cause and activities and are either members or support
members can become exhibitors.
2
Basic Policy Plan of Hosting the Convention
Points to Keep In Mind in Hosting the Convention(Direction of Hosting the Convention)
1.Host Country
■In the future we will construct a framework where different countries will
rotate to host and support the Convention.
■To establish an implementation model as well as build recognition and
success, the first 3 to 4 Conventions will be held in Japan.
that the source of information (the
convention) should start in Japan
■One of the most well-known environmental instrument is the Kyoto
Protocol adopted in Japan. Despite the many environmental conferences
taking place around the world, no event has ever included an exhibit ion
of environmental technologies . Therefore, it is a natural course of
events, that this Convention should begin in Japan, which would carry a
significant message . Global consensus on this matter should be easy
to attain.
2.Venue
■Venue candidates include Kyoto from the Kyoto Protocol, and
Okinawa and Hokkaido from the past G8 summits but considering
factors such as transportation, operation and promotion, we would
like to recommend the Tokyo Big Sight (Tokyo International
Exhibition Center.)
3.Timing of the Conference
4.Exhibitors (Corporations)
■With the cooperation of governments around the world, NCT will
encourage corporations worldwide to participate in the exhibition.
■Participation of Japanese corporations will be managed through the
future energies organization (GSSI Earth Environment Technology
Development Expo Executive Committee)
(Anticipated number of participating corporations: from 500 to 1000)
5. Advantages in Participating in the Exhibition
■By participating, corporations will have the opportunity to introduce and promote
their energy efficient products, obtain information on renewable, alternative and
sustainable energy resources, and may obtain rights to or participate in projects.
■By positioning participation itself as a status symbol, higher awareness will be
seen in corporate efforts to engage in environmental friendly endeavors.
■Improved brand image of participating corporations and an opportunity to
accumulate consumer response data
6.Operations
■Hosted by: Nobel Charitable Trust
■ The GSSI Earth Environment Technology Development Expo
Executive Committee will manage all production and operations of
this convention.
■As the formation of NCT and preparations to organize the
support system in Japan will begin in spring 2010, timing of the 1 st
Convention will be in the year 2012.
■Seasonal factors in Japan indicate the best timing for the
conference to be in spring (April-May) or fall (Sept- Oct).
7. Implementation Costs
■Funds will be provided by NCT, sponsors, and exhibition fees
will be collected from each participating exhibitor.
3
Overall Structure
Structure of Funds and Operations of the Convention
The Noble Charitable Trust
Individuals Corporations and Organizations Who Support NCT
Donations
Donations
Sponsors
Member
Corporations
Environmental corporations
from around the world
Business Advantages for
Participation Corporations
●Anchoring environmental
improvement activities
●Improved customer evaluations
●Corporate PR
●Increase in sales
●Advertisement and Promotion
● Improved brand image and an
opportunity to accumulate
consumer response data
Sponsor/
Endorse
Exhibition
Fees
Exhibition
Booths
Host
Nobel Charitable Trust
Management of
Operations
*GSSI Earth Environment Technology Development
Expo Executive Committee
*NTC Executive Committee
Will manage all production and operations of the Convention
Planning/Operations
NCT Earth Environment Convention
(Tentative)
Support
◆Global Warming
Researches
◆Venture Scholarships
◆NCT Energy Award
◆Environmental Venture
Corporations
◆NCT Children’s
Goodwill Ambassador
◆Improving Living
Environment for Children
4
Basic Development Plan of the Convention
* Unauthorized use of information, postings and distributions are strictly prohibited. For information, please contact the Nobel Charitable Trust at info@nobelcharitabletrust.org
5
Outline of Convention
■Name of Event
Nobel Charitable Trust Earth Environment Convention (tentative)
■Date of Event May, 2012 (to be confirmed) 3 days (Thurs, Fri, Sat) Day 1: Morning: Press Day/ Afternoon: Public Day/
Day 2-3: Public Day (open to the public)
■Venue
Tokyo Big Sight West Exhibition Halls 1-2 (plan), International Conference Room, Reception Hall and other conference rooms
■Hosted by Nobel Charitable Trust (Endorsements and Sponsors listed below are only for reference)
■Endorsed by
■Sponsored by
■Exhibitors
■Visitors
■Admission
General Administrative Agency of the Cabinet, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Education, Culture,
Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communication (plan), various local authorities.
TV Broadcasters, mass medias, Junior Chamber International Japan, National Congress of Parents & Teachers Association of Japan, JETRO, UNICEF, UNESCO
(List of companies)
NCT Member Corporations (Organizations), Universities
Day1 : morning: media and industry people, afternoon: public / Day2-3: open to the public (students etc)
Admission Fee TBD
■Number of Visitors 60,000 visitors (goal) (goal for 2 nd year, 100,000 visitors and 150,000 visitors for the 3rd year)
■Operation
GSSI Earth Environment Technology Development Expo Executive Committee and NCT Executive Committee (tentative)
■Content of Event
Exhibition of energy efficient products, energy efficient product awards, keynote lecture, forums and others
6
Content of the Convention
We will not be concerned with the number/variety of event contents for the first year and focus our
efforts on bettering the quality of each content.
Developments Before the Event (Announcements/PR)
Press Conference
Official Website
Media Announcements
Exhibition of Energy Efficient Products
《 Venue: West Hall 1&2 》
Exhibition of renewable, alternative and sustainable
energy developments and energy efficient products
Large scale exhibition with exhibition booths
Award Ceremony
Keynote Lecture Forum Others
《 Venue: International Conference Room 》
Forum/Symposium
Keynote lecture by world class
environmental authorities.
Convey direction of NCT and the
Convention
Nobel Earth Environment Convention (tentative)
《 Venue: International Conference
Room and other conference rooms 》
Forum/Symposium
Panel discussions on themes of renewable,
alternative and sustainable energies and
earth environment
《 Venue: Special Stage in the West Hall Atrium 》
NCT Energy Award and other Award’s Ceremony
The Award Ceremony will be the highlight of the Convention
Presentations by Corporations
Public presentations by corporations that pass the first screening.
《 Venue: Other areas 》
Events for Children
Experiment stages and interactive events
for children
Reception Party
Reception party for NCT members to
exchanges ideas and information
7
Venue Overview (Tentative)
1 st Convention to be held at Tokyo Big Sight: Easy access, large capacity and good facilities
Overview of Tokyo Big Sight (Tokyo International Exhibition Center)
■Facilities
Location 3-11-1 Ariake Koto-ku Tokyo
Total Site Area 243,419.46m2
Total Bldg Area 141,700.04m2
Total Floor Area 230,873.07m2
Total Exhibition Area 80,660m2
Structure Steel frame, reinforced concrete construction
Height Conference Tower: 8F and B1/
West Exhibition Hall: 5F/ East Exhibition Hall: 3F and B1
【 East Exhibition Hall 】
Consists of six halls, three on each side of the Galleria. Each hall contains
recessed electronic and information control service pits every six meters,
equipped with large freight entrances to facilitate exhibition setup and removal.
Each hall is 90m x 90m and can be combined into one large exhibition area to
meet the needs of large exhibitions and events
【 West Exhibition Hall 1 & 2 】
2 Halls on 1F with Atrium in the middle. Adjacent to the Outdoor Exhibition area.
【 West Exhibition Hall 3 & 4 】
2 Exhibition halls around the top open space of the Atrium on 4F. Adjacent to
the Rooftop Exhibition area. Direct slopes to the 4F freight entrance.
【 Reception Hall 】
Fully equipped with a stage that can be raised, audio and lighting systems, and an
simultaneous interpretation system.
【 International Conference Room 】
Main facility in the Conference Tower. Seats 1000. Fully equipped with audio
and lighting systems and an simultaneous interpretation system of up to 8
languages. Used for international conventions, symposiums and other large
scale events.
【 Other Conference Rooms 】
The Conference Tower also has 22 other small to medium sized conference
rooms. Largest rooms 605-608 can accommodate up to 612 persons each.
8
Exhibition Zone
Exhibition
Energy efficient products and services from Japan and around the world all exhibited in one venue. NCT will send out the
latest information on energy efficiency to reduce effects on the environment.
Exhibition of Renewable. Alternative and Sustainable Energy Developments & Energy Efficient Products
Exhibitors will be corporations (organizations) of energy efficient products and renewable, alternative and sustainable energy developments from around the
world. The exhibition will scale in size each year as the most prestigious environmental exhibition.
Each participating corporation (organization) will enter a product (technology/service)for the awards. As corporations hope to win, an active and lively
atmosphere will be created.
Categories
The exhibition zone will be divided into 2 subzones under the following categories:
1 Renewable, Alternative and Sustainable Energy Zone ⇒ Introducing new energy developments such as fuel cells and biomass energy
*3 Awards will be selected from this division by the Judging Committee: NCT Energy Aware, Kyoto Energy Award, Nobel Family Award
2 Environment and Eco Zone ⇒ Exhibits and demonstrations of energy efficient products, services and
technologies
*3 Awards will be selected from this division by visitors and the Judging Committee: NCT Contribution to the
Environment Award, NCT Environmental Design Award and the Special Ecology Award (3 products)
Venue and Booths
Venue scheduled to be at Tokyo Big Sight’s West Halls 1 & 2 (17,760 m2 ).
Depending on the number of exhibitors, may use West Halls 3 & 4 (11,520 m2 ) and also the rooftop exhibition area.
〈 Construction of Booths 〉
■Booth space will be in units of 3m x 3m: 1 unit, 2 units, 3 units, 4 units, 8 units . Other requests
from exhibitors can be accommodated.
■The Japan Earth Environment Technology Development Organization office will set up basic
eco-friendly structures (floor, building frames, etc).
■Exhibitors will be responsible for the construction and set up of exhibition decorations.
※If there are many exhibitors we will change venues to the East Hall
9
Selection of Awards
Award
★Selection, Announcement of Winners and the Award Ceremony
Awards will be granted to energy developments, products and services evaluated as being most ingenious,
practical and eco-friendly (Winners will be selected through visitor’s votes and the Judging Committee)
NCT aims to gain worldwide recognition and establish the NCT accreditation mark as the world’s most prestigious environmental accreditation mark.
This will be the most distinctive feature of this Convention.
Awarded products will have the right to carry the NCT accreditation mark and news of the winners will be sent through NCT’s PR division to the world.
How Awards are Selected (tentative plan)
Establishment of a
Judging Committee
Entries 1 st Screening Presentation Final Screening
● Establishment of a
qualified Judging
Committee
*● The Committee will
consist of approximately
10 judged and 10 civil
members
● A review committee
●A summary of
the entry product
will be submitted
at the time the
entry application
is submitted
●Judges from the committee and
●Held on the last day of
visitors will go around booths and
the Convention. The
check products.
selected 8 corporations
●8 finalists will be selected upon
conduct public
the results of votes from day 1-2.
demonstrations.
Visitor Votes
●After the presentations,
the judging committee
will select the winners.
Count Votes
will work on the method
●On day 1 &2, ballots will be handed out to visitors at the entrance. ●Voting will end at 12:00
of selection for visitor
●Visitors will go around each booth, mark the product/service they on the 3 rd day and
votes
find most outstanding and cast their votes.
ballots counted.
Awards (tentative)
ENERGY DIVISION
★NCT Energy Award ★Kyoto Energy Award ★Nobel Family Honorary Award
These awards will be awarded to the best achievements or most practical inventions in the energy field.
(selection will be made by the Judging Committee)
ENVIRONMENT & ECOLOGY DIVISION
★NCT Contribution to Environmental Award ★NCT Environmental Design Award ★Special Ecology Award
The “NCT Contribution to Environment Award” and the “NCT Environmental Design Award” will be awarded to
the best achievements or most practical inventions the fields of energy efficient products, eco-friendly services
and R&D. The “Special Ecology Award” will be awarded to the product that wins the most votes of visitors .
(selection will be made by the Judging Committee and visitors)
Award Ceremony Venue
Announcement and
Award Ceremony
●Winners will be
announced on the last
day at 15:00 followed
by an award ceremony
The Award Ceremony will take place at a special
stage constructed in the West Hall Atrium.
■Announcement of winners and the Award Ceremony will
take place at the special stage in the West Atrium
■Judges, the 8 finalists (companies), press and other parties
involved will participate.
■Winners will be presented with a certificate of
merit,/medal/prize money by members of the Nobel family in
accordance with the awards.
10
Selection and the Award Ceremony
Public Presentations
★NCT Energy Award★ Kyoto Energy Award ★Nobel Family Honorary Award
The 8 finalists will conduct public presentations of their products.
Outline of Presentation
Each corporation will have 15 minutes to make a presentation in front of the
judge.
The presentation will place the spotlight on environmental products and
services representing the year.
●Date & Time: Final Day (10:30-12:30)
●Place: International Conference Room
●Participants : Judges, press and others
involved
●Visitors: free (first 500 visitors)
■ The 8 finalists will be announced at 16:00 on the 2 nd day.
■No defined style of presentation. A screen will be used.
■After all 8 finalists complete their presentations, the judges will
hold a final selection meeting.
■Announcement of winners and the Award Ceremony will take
place at the special stage from 15:00.
※Presentations are held to better explain the features of the product to the Judges
and visitors and will be a factor in determining the awards.
Awards Selected by Visitors and the Judging Committee
★NCT Contribution to the Environment Award ★NCT Environmental Design Award
★Special Ecology Award
The Judging Committee will select the winners from the finalists selected by votes
of the visitors
◆Selections will be made on the basis of the votes casted by visitors during public days
◆The Awards above will be awarded to the top 3 products with the most votes
Announcement of Awards & Ceremony
Ingenuity, practicality, lessening effects on the
environment and design. All these factors will be
comprehensively examined in determining the awards.
As the audience watch, an impressive award ceremony will be
produced. Each award will be presented in a prestigious
manner, well suited for this honor.
●Date and Time: Last Day (15:00-15:45)
●Place: Special stage build in the Atrium
●Participants: Judges, press and others
involved
●Visitors: Free
1Opening Speech
2Announcement of Awards, Award Presentation and Speech
from Winners
ENVIRONMENT & ECOLOGY DIVISION :
★Special Ecology Award ★NCT Contribution to the Environment
Award★NCT Environmental Design Award
ENERGY DIVISION:
★Kyoto Energy Award ★Nobel Family Award ★NCT Energy
Award
3Overall Comments by the Chair of the Judging Committee
4Photo Session of Winners
Outline
Award Ceremony Program (draft)
●Closing Remarks
Presenter: Michael Nobel
Photo Session
Nobel Medal
(image)
Stage decorations will be prestigious and dignified within the premises of eco-friendly materials.
11
Keynote Speech
Keynote
Speech
Keynote Speech by world renown authorities in the field of environmental issues : A lecture on the direction of NCT and the Convention
NCT’s Aims for the Earth Environment Lectures
Through the keynote lectures, the fundamental principals of the Convention, current earth environment issues and
directions will be addressed. As NCT aims to gain worldwide status and further promote this Convention, keynote
speakers will be selected from world class authorities.
Outline of Keynote Lectures
● A total of 3 keynote lectures will take place (each 45minutes)
during day 1 & 2.
●Admission: Related authorities, press and the public (reservation
required for the public/ admission fee required)
●Content of lectures will be provided in newsletters
●Keynote Lectures will be broadcasted on NCT’s official website
【 International Conference Room 】
Venue of Keynote Lectures
■Capacity: 1000(fixed chairs)
■Simultaneous Interpretation System for up to 8
languages, equipped with audio-visual and lighting
systems
■Large screen will project a real time enlarged image of
the keynote speaker
■Large screen can also be used for presentations.
Keynote Lecturers (plan)
Lecturers for the first Convention in 2012 will be the founders of NCT, the Nobel Family, well known environmental activists Bono and 45 th Vice President of the United States,, Al Gore (tentative)
The Nobel Family
The 4 founders and directors
of the NCT will be the keynote
speakers for Day 1 (1st
speech).
They will speak about NCT’s
direction in facing the
environmental crisis the world
needs to address.
Al Gore
45th Vice President of the United States,
Nobel Peace Prize laureate and active
environmentalist Al Gore will be the
keynote speaker for Day2 (2 nd speech)
Al Gore will speak about the threats of
global warming, and the desired path of
corporations in relation to the
environment and technology.
Bono
U2’s lead vocalist, renown
philanthropist and 3 time
candidate for the Nobel Peace
Prize, Bono will be the keynote
speaker for Day 2 (3 rd speech).
Bono will convey his thoughts on
the connection of environmental
technology and world peace.
12
Profile: Michael Nobel, who visited Japan in March, 2010
Michael Nobel
Trustee, Nobel Family Society
Former Chairman of the Nobel Charitable Trust in Switzerland
Former Chairman of the Appeal of the Peace Prize Laureates Foundation.
【 Michael Nobel’s Profile 】
Dr. Nobel was born in Sweden and has been living in Switzerland for many years. He is a citizen of Sweden and Switzerland. After studies in Sweden
and America he obtained a doctorate at the University of Lausanne in psycho-pedagogy in 1979. He then worked for seven years as a researcher in
social sciences at the Institute for Mass Communication at the Lausanne University and at the Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine and has
been a consultant to UNESCO in Paris and the United Nation’s Social Affairs Division in Geneva.
Commercially he participated in the introduction of magnetic resonance imaging and is chairman or board member of a total of 10 international
companies in the fields of diagnostics, treatment, financial investments and information systems in the field of medicine, satellite communications,
Internet service provision, airport security, management consulting and finance.
In his idealistic work Michael Nobel is chairman or board member of several non-for-profit organizations in the field of conflict resolution, youth
education and development. He has also served as Chairman of the Nobel Charitable Trust, a trust that will honor politicians, scientists and
corporations who make a significant contribution in the field of renewable energy by providing awards. NCT also plans to hold international
conferences in this field.
Michael Nobel has received numerous international citations and awards for his work in the fields of medicine and conflict resolution including an
honorary doctorate from Soka University and an honorary professorship from the National Academy of Science of Azerbaijan. He is also an honorary
member of two Rotary clubs and in 1997 Rotary International conferred on him the Paul Harris Fellowship Award.
In 2002 he was awarded the Gandhi, King, Ikeda Award from Morehouse College in Atlanta, earlier only given once, to Prince El Hassan bin Talal of
Jordan. In 2004 he became the Board of Trustees Citation Recipient from the Midwest Research Institute of Kansas City. Previous recipients include
Margaret Thatcher (former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom), Henry Kissinger (former US National Security Advisor), Paul Volcker (former
chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank), Edward Teller (father of the H-bomb) and Henry Ford (founder of the Ford Motor Company).
In 2004 he was appointed foreign member of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences as well as receiving the UNESCO medal for outstanding
contributions to the cultural dialogue between nations. The same year in Jerusalem he received the Albert Einstein Medal for Outstanding
Achievements in Life Sciences and Technology and in 2006 the International Order of Perfection, First Class.
13
Forums/Symposiums
Forums
Identifying a vision for the future of environmental energies and products through forums with experts and researchers
Forums and Symposiums to Improve Our Environment
Discussions on environmental issues from various perspectives with cultural figures, scholars, and journalists in
the environmental field, and in-house developers.
Simultaneous interpretation will be available. Forums will be unique and richly international.
Outline of Forums/Symposiums
●A total of 5 sessions will be scheduled throughout the 3 day event
(last day will have one session)
Each session will have a different theme and environmental issues will be
discussed from various perspectives: global, environmental economics,
technological, governmental and biological.
●Sessions will be panel discussion. 3-5 panelists will discuss a theme.
Venue
●Venue will be the international conference room and other
conference rooms
【 conference rooms 605 to 608 】
■760m2
; 612 seats (theater style)
■Large screen available
●To enhance understanding we will include time to take questions
from the audience.
●Admission : reservations required/ admission fee required
(Photos of speakers will be inserted as they are confirmed)
Panelists (example)
14
Other Events
To promote interest and knowledge of environmental issues and renewable, alternative
and sustainable energy resources in children.
Establishment of the NCT Children’s Goodwill Ambassador
Events for Children
Provide an opportunity to exchange information and promote
application into future businesses
Deepen Exchanges Between Members
Experiments & Interactive Events
Provide children, who will take on the role of R&D for
future energies, an opportunity to learn and
experience energy and the environment
Experimenting with the Wonders of Energy
A special children’s experiment corner will be set up in the exhibition zone
With the cooperation of exhibitors, we will have a corner for
children to experience energy related experiments. (ex. fuel
cell experiments etc.)
Purpose is for children to experience and understand, not to
watch experiments
◆ Only available on public days. Participation will be on a first come first serve basis
Experimental Show: the Wonders of Energy
Energy and environment related experiment
shows will be conducted on the special stage
in the Atrium on public days
Ex. Performances by popular science producer
Denjiro Yonemura (energy experiment shows)
◆Only available on public days, Participation is free
Denjiro Yonemura
Establishment of the NCT Children’s Goodwill Ambassador program.
Camps for children to experience and think about nature/
visits to locations with environmental issues (plan)
After the end of Day 1, a reception party inviting members and
other related authorities will be held to provide an opportunity to
promote and deepen exchanges.
Outline
The reception party will be an informal gathering for NCT and members
to deepen exchanges, an opportunity for future product development
and opening new distribution channels,
●Date & Time: Day 1 (18:00 to 20:00)
●Place: Reception Hall (1,700 m2 )
●Participants: Members (2 per corporation),
other related authorities, approx. 1500 people
●Reception Style: Stand up Party
〈 Draft Schedule 〉
1Opening Speech by Host
2Guest Speaker
3Festive Opening of Sake Barrel
4Free time
5Show time
6Free time
Reception Party
〈 Example of Shows 〉
Tap Show
(Super LiBLAZE)
Illusion Magic
(Cyril)
15
Program (Tentative)
Day 1: Morning: Press,/Afternoon: Public Day 2: Public Day Day 3: Public Day
Ex. Hall Sp. Stage Int.Conf. Rm Conf.Rm
Ex. Hall Sp. Stage Int.Conf. Rm Conf.Rm
Ex. Hall Sp. Stage Int. Conf. Rm
Conf.Rm
09:00
09:00
09:00
10:00
11:00
12:00
13:00
Press
Opening Ceremony
Keynote
Lecture 1
Selection process by Judges and
visitors all day
Forum 1
10:00
11:00
12:00
13:00
Exhibition
Selection process by Judges and
visitors all day
Experiment
Show
Keynote
Lecture 2
Keynote
Lecture 3
Forum 3
10:00
11:00
12:00
13:00
Count
Votes
Exhibition
Experiment
Show
Public
Presentations
Forum 5
14:00
14:00
14:00
Exhibition
15:00
16:00
Forum
2
15:00
16:00
Announce
Finalists
Forum 4
15:00
16:00
Announce/Award
Ceremony
Closing
17:00
17:00
17:00
18:00
18:00
18:00
19:00
Reception Party
(Reception Hall)
19:00
19:00
20:00
20:00
20:00
※This program is tentative and may change.
16
Media Announcements and PR
Effective PR Activities to Ensure Target Turnout Number is Attained and the Convention is a Success
Press Release
Official press release of Convention
and Awards. Press release by a
member of the Nobel Family .
A press release will be held to a wide range of
media to announce and topicalize the creation of
this new Convention.
Development Plan
It is Important to hold a press meeting that will
create a buzz to attract as many press and articles
releases as possible
■Ensure the attendance of the Nobel Family
and other prominent directors
◆ By releasing comments (personally signed) from Prince
Charles and Former US Vice President Al Gore, attract media
attention worldwide.
1Opening Speech by Host (Chairman)
2Introducing Directors (include comments from
Prince Charles and Al Gore)
3 Video of the History of NCT
4Introducing the Nobel Charitable Trust
5Summary Presentation of the Convention
6Q&A
7Schedule up to the Convention
8Closing Speech
9Photo Session
Press kit and souvenir at the end.
Website
Opening a website for NCT and the
Convention where information of the
event will be released.
Opening an official website immediately to
accommodate interests generated through the
announcement of the press release.
Development Plan
■Timely opening of the official website after the
press release.
■Active use of the site as an eco product portal
site that provides an outline and highlight of the
Convention, NCT’s official website and links to
exhibitors.
◆The dedicated members (Exhibitors Only) page will
provide information on exhibitors.
◆Blog-style information of the Convention will be
provided.
〈 Website Examples 〉
Advertisements
Promote awareness and attract
visitors to the Convention through
advertisements using mass media.
As this will be the first Convention, it is essential that
we reach and penetration the public using mass media
to promote widespread awareness of the Convention..
Development Plan
●Newspaper Ads
Ads in Nikkei Newspaper
and others will advertise the
event 1 week before the
Convention (all 15 columns)
●Web Ads
Banner Ads on Yahoo’s search engine page
( from a month before Convention)
(Example of Ad)
Link to the official
NCT Convention
website
17
Overall Schedule
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5
Overall
Awards
Exhibition
Basic Initiatives
●
Reserve Venue
基本構想
Basic Plan
●
Finalize Venue
●
Press Release
Gather Exhibitor
●
Select Judges
Implementation Plan
●
Exhibitor Briefings
Application to
Authorities
Confirm entry
products
Production
Convention Opening
Set Up
Keynote
Lecture
Forums
●
Select Candidates
●
Finalize Speakers
Announcements
PR Activities
Opening of the Official Website
● ● ●
Releases
Web Ads
Newspaper Ads
18
NCT’s Activities
19
NCT’s Activities
20
NCT’s Activities
21
The Nobel Charitable Trust Symposium (Sep 10 th , 2010)
22
The special video messages of celebrities
• "I hope that people look upon charity as they look upon the necessity of flowers needing
oxygen. Any dream is possible if it comes from the heart because it is a real thing"
- Stevie Wonder
• “I hope to have the opportunity to bring our own modest contributions one day together
with you because we are the world”
- Quincy Jones
• "I dream that, one day when I wake up, the whole world will be one people who loves
each other. I think it is possible that people throughout the world will communicate with
each other since we are not different"
- George Duke
• “I am pleased to learn that all your work is to achieve peace of help, peace of mind,
peace of heart and peace of body”
- Dionne Warwick
• “Remember, you can achieve everything if you really try. Never, never, never give in”
- Former Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley
