From: J [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 10/12/2018 7:27:19 PM 
To: Anthony 
Subject: Re: Deal info 
funn, but quite a mess 
On Fri, Oct 12, 2018 at 2:55 PM A Barrett < 
Hi jeffrey, 
Cam across this...perhaps you have some interest? 
I> wrote: 
Related Companies affiliate bids $32M for 
embattled Palm House Hotel 
The New York company, led by Stephen Ross, made a stalking horse bid for the Palm 
Beach condo-hotel project that is heading to auction 
By Keith Larsen October 11, 2018 06:15PM 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 027063 
Palm House Hotel, Related Companies Stephen Ross600 
An affiliate of the Related Companies has emerged as the initial bidder for 
the Palm House Hotel as the failed condo-hotel project heads to a 
bankruptcy auction. 
The stalking horse bidder, RREF II PALM HOUSE LLC, has the same 
address as Related Companies in New York and is led by Related 
Companies Managing Principal Justin Metz, according to a filing in U.S. 
Bankruptcy Court. The company is offering $32 million for the property, 
which will set the floor price for a bankruptcy auction scheduled for next 
month. Bids at the auction will start at $32.5 million. 
The 79-unit condo-hotel project on Palm Beach Island stalled in 2014 and 
its former developer now faces allegations of fraud by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and a group of EB-5 investors. In August, the 
property filed for bankruptcy under its court appointed receiver with 
creditors claims totaling $115 million. 
Cushman & Wakefield's Robert Given, Errol Blumer, Michael Mulkern and 
Robert Kaplan are the exclusive marketing advisers for the property. The 
auction is scheduled for 10 a.m. on November 16, 2018 in West Palm 
Beach. 
Given said he expects the property to sell for up to $40 million and it could 
be the last opportunity for a developer to own a hotel in the wealthy enclave 
of Palm Beach. He said the next owner will likely not redevelop the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 027064 
property. Instead, the best option would be to continue renovating the 
existing project which could take more than a year to complete, Given said. 
By auctioning the project through a bankruptcy sale, it will be offered free 
and clear from any liens. The bankruptcy also means that the new owner 
will not have any responsibility for the issues stemming from EB-5 
investors who had invested in the property. 
The 82,648-square-foot project was first developed in 1961 and expanded in 
1981. The property was set to be renovated by a group led by developer 
Robert Matthews. 
Matthews then raised $44 million from EB-5 investors, according to a 
complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission. EB-5 is a federal 
program that allows foreign investors the chance to gain a green card if they 
invest at least $500,000 into certain projects that create at least 10 jobs. 
The SEC's complaint said, however, that much of this money was 
misallocated to pay for Matthews' personal expenses. Some of the funds 
allegedly went to pay for Mathews' Connecticut home, his 151-foot mega 
yacht, as well as to save his Palm Beach mansion from foreclosure, 
according to the complaint. 
In a separate lawsuit filed by a group of EB-5 investors, the development 
group claimed that famous celebrities and politicians such as Bill Clinton, 
Donald Trump, Celine Dion and Bill Koch — would serve on the Palm 
House's advisory board when, in fact, they did not. 
Related Companies, led by Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross, 
developed CityPlace West Palm Beach. The company is also proposing to 
build a 25-story office project called One Flagler in downtown West Palm 
Beach. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 027065 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 027066 
