From: Lawrence Krauss 
Sent: 12/11/2017 6:34:49 PM 
To: Peter Aldhous 
CC: Lawrence Krauss_______________________________ 
Subject: Re: URGENT: BuzzFeed News inquiry re allegations of sexual harassment 
Attachments: image002.png 
Importance: High 
Hello Peter. I am currently on a plane. I sent you earlier from the plane an email response to your letter, which 
I hope you received. Regarding your note below: My earlier remark to you was based on my correspondence 
with the universities during and after the investigation, and the conclusion I drew from the ANU report, which I 
quoted for you in my response to your note. The claims made in the allegation which were later demonstrated to 
be false, or which were then not supported after repeated requests from the University to substantiate the claim, 
provided evidence that the claim was fabricated (as I knew it must be), and therefore maliciously so. 
I had been planning on resigning my honorary appointment at ANU before I received the original letter from 
ANU because my wife had moved to the US several years ago, and I no longer visited the University regularly 
to work with colleagues there as I did in earlier years. When I received the letter from ANU regarding the 
complaint, I decided to wait to resign my appointment until the investigation was completed and the complaint 
was dismissed. After it was, I sent my note of resignation in, and I note that upon its receipt the Dean he 
suggested I remain on until my appointment expired at the end of this year, but as I had made my decision to 
resign earlier I felt no need to wait until then. I received a very nice note from the director of the unit I work 
with (who was made aware of the complaint and its resolution by the Dean) who expressed thanks for my many 
contributions to the University while there, and my interactions with staff, students, and faculty there. 
I hope this clarifies your issues. 
LMK 
On Dec 11, 2017, at 9:02 AM, Peter Aldhous <111' wrote: 
Dr. Krauss, 
Since sending the note below, we have heard from the Australian National University. They informed us: 
"The characterisation by Professor Krauss that The Australian National University (ANU) found the complaint 
to be 'unsubstantiated and fabricated with malicious intent' is false." 
They also told us that you resigned your honorary appointment at ANU on November 3. Can you comment on 
the reason for your resignation from ANU? 
I would welcome the opportunity to discuss this with you. Again, we are planning on publishing our story 
Tuesday morning, Eastern US Time. Please provide any comments you wish us to consider before then. 
Sincerely, 
Peter Aldhous 
On 12/10/17 5:12 PM, Peter Aldhous wrote: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031263 
Dr. Krauss: 
As you know, I'm a reporter for BuzzFeed News who has been investigating sexual misconduct allegations 
against you. As we've already discussed by email, I'd very much like to interview you about these allegations in 
detail. 
In particular, you stated in an email sent on Nov 13 that two universities had investigated an incident (# 6 
below). You claimed that "both Universities independently concluded that the report was unsubstantiated and 
fabricated with malicious intent." We are not aware that either university concluded fabrication or malicious 
intent, so if you have evidence to support this assertion, we would like to see and discuss it. 
The story concerns your actions towards students while a professor of physics at Case Western Reserve 
University, as well as your conduct in non-academic settings as a prominent figure in the skeptics movement. I 
am reporting this story along with two of my colleagues on the science desk, Azeen Ghorayshi and Virginia 
Hughes. 
Our story is about several allegations of sexual misconduct dating from 2006 to 2016 (see full details below). 
Our reporting also goes into how the various institutions you have been affiliated with — Case Western, 
Arizona State University, the Australian National University, the New College of the Humanities, and the Center 
for Inquiry, for which you serve as an honorary member of the board of directors — have handled complaints 
and concerns about your behavior during this time. 
Our story is corroborated by emails, university documents, official complaints, testimony from victims and 
eyewitnesses, and interviews with more than two dozen of your current and former academic colleagues, 
students, and peers in the skeptics movement. 
I wanted to offer you the opportunity to comment and/or respond to the main facts we plan to publish. If you 
wish to comment on any of the below findings, we need to hear from you as soon as possible. We are 
planning on publishing our story Tuesday morning, Eastern US Time. 
Based on our reporting, this is what we plan to publish: 
Incident 1: 
• In November of 2006, at an event launching the new Center for Inquiry in Washington D.C., you met a 
volunteer for CFI D.C. 
• At the event, you asked for her business card. Later, you followed her as she was leaving and asked 
her if she was "of age." 
• Later, you emailed her to invite her to dinner. 
• You planned to dine with her in the restaurant at the Washington D.C. hotel where you were staying. 
• You told her to come up to your room first because you needed to finish some work. 
• In your hotel room, you seemed in no rush to leave. You ordered a cheese plate, and later champagne, 
despite her suggestion that you go down to dinner. 
• You then made a comment about her eye makeup, getting very close to her face. 
• You then lifted her by her arms, and pushed her onto the bed beneath you, forcibly kissing her and 
trying to pull down the crotch of her tights. 
• She struggled to push you off her. 
• You said, "When I was in college I could never get a girl that looked like you." 
• When you pulled out a condom, she got out from under you. She said "I have to go," and rushed out of 
the room. 
Incident 2: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031264 
• In an incident that occurred in fall of 2007 while you were a physics professor at Case Western Reserve 
University, a student tried to talk to you about her plans after graduation. You mentioned to her how tough it 
must be to have all the other physics majors asking her out on dates. 
• In a second incident in December of 2007, while you were still at Case Western, the same student 
visited your office to interview you for a student science journal. You closed the door behind her, and ignored 
the questions she had prepared. Then you made a casual comment about taking her out for dinner. 
• Later, in a regular column for the school paper, she described her experiences with you, without 
mentioning you by name. "There was even one particular creep of a professor who once told me he thought 
differently of me compared to other students and asked me to dinner: a situation so disturbing that it left me 
upset for weeks afterward," she wrote. 
• She was then approached by a dean at the university, who suspected that she was referring to you, 
based on a previously reported incident with another student. He encouraged her to make a complaint, and 
she did. 
• University investigators interviewed both you and the student. 
• On September 4, 2008, Susan Nickel-Schindewolf, the university's associate vice president for student 
affairs, wrote to the student, telling her that the investigation was complete. She wrote that you had been told: 
"This type of behavior could constitute sexual harassment in violation of the university's sexual harassment 
policy. 
• The letter also stated that you were prohibited from making contact with the student as long as she 
remained at Case. 
• The letter also stated that you are required to get approval from the dean or the chair of the physics 
department before setting foot on the campus again. 
• The letter also stated, "Dr. Krauss expressed regret about having a negative impact on you, and also 
his willingness to use this complaint as an opportunity to reflect and improve on his future interactions with 
students." 
• By then, you had already left Case, taking up your current position at Arizona State University the 
month before. 
• "The opportunities being offered at ASU are simply too great to turn down at this stage in my career," 
you told Case colleagues, in an email announcing your departure on April 16, 2008. 
Incident 3: 
• A former Case Western physics department administrator confirmed that she had reported a previous 
incident involving a student who had confided in her about your inappropriate behavior towards her. 
Incident 4: 
• You met a student from another university, an atheist activist, in March 2008 at the American Atheists 
Convention in Minneapolis. She wanted to expand the atheist group she ran at the midwestern university she 
was attending, and hoped to convince you to come and speak. You initially seemed enthusiastic. 
• During the convention, attendees including you and Richard Dawkins went for dinner with the student 
and volunteers for Dawkins' foundation. 
• Afterwards, the student invited you to join the volunteers for a drink. 
• You asked her to come get you in your hotel room. She was wary of your intentions, and so brought a 
male friend with her. Opening the door to find them both there, you informed her you had decided not to go. 
• You met this student again at the American Atheists Convention in Des Moines, Iowa, in April 2011. 
• 
table. 
You pulled over a chair for her in the bar, and then started running your hand up her leg under the 
• She tried to shift her body away from you, and you persisted in putting your hand on her leg. She 
crossed her legs, and you kept trying. Then she turned her entire body away. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031265 
Incident 5: 
• This incident allegedly occurred on in May 2011 on a CFI cruise. We understand that CFI staff were 
informed that you had propositioned a female cruise-goer, who rejected an invitation to join you and your 
female companion for sex in your cabin. 
• At least two CFI staffers were sufficiently concerned about reports of your behavior that they urged 
CFI's president not to invite you on a 2014 cruise of the Galapagos Islands. You were invited on that cruise, 
however. 
Incident 6: 
• During a visit to Melbourne, Australia, in November 2016, you were accused of sexual misconduct once 
again. 
• The incident happened at a dinner held at the Melbourne Zoo as part of the Australian Skeptics  
National Convention, where you were a featured speaker. 
• With conference delegates chatting over drinks, a woman asked you for a celebrity selfie. 
• As the woman held out her phone to take the picture, you reached over her shoulder and grabbed her 
right breast. 
• She immediately reacted, bodychecking you and spinning around. "Don't do that," she said. 
• BuzzFeed News has seen the complaint made by another woman to ASU, ANU, and the New College 
of the Humanities in London, including the selfie, her face obscured to conceal her identity. It shows your hand 
in motion as a blur in front of her shoulder, apparently moving toward her chest. Two other eyewitnesses have 
confirmed the complainant's account of what happened. 
• In April 2017, the complainant described the incident on her blog. After hearing more about your 
reputation for inappropriate behavior from blog readers, she decided to file a complaint about the Nov. 2016 
incident. 
• On July 16, she filed formal complaints with Arizona State University, and with the Australian National 
University in Canberra and the New College of the Humanities in London, where you have visiting 
appointments. 
• Both Arizona State and the Australian National University told her they would look into the matter. But 
neither university found against you. 
• "Based on the material available to the University, we do not have sufficient evidence to substantiate 
the allegations," Kiaran Kirk, dean of the College of Science at the Australian National University, wrote to her. 
• Erin Ellison, who heads Arizona State's Office of Equity & Inclusion, wrote to her explaining that an 
inquiry "did not find a violation of university policy." 
• In October, Arizona State denied a request from BuzzFeed News for documents relating to complaints 
of sexual harassment against you. However, Cynthia Jewett, the university's senior associate general counsel, 
noted that two individuals, neither affiliated with the university, had complained about you. "The University did 
not find either communication to state a credible allegation," Jewett wrote. 
Miscellaneous facts: 
• In 2008, you founded the Origins Project at Arizona State University in Tempe, a multidisciplinary effort 
to understand the origins of the universe, life, and social systems. You have led that effort ever since. 
• Thanks to best-selling books like The Physics of Star Trek and A Universe From Nothing, frequent 
essays in publications including the New Yorker and the New York Times, and the documentary you made with 
biologist Richard Dawkins, called The Unbelievers, you are celebrated as one of America's leading public 
intellectuals. 
• You served on the science policy committee for Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign and are a 
vocal critic of President Donald Trump. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031266 
• You also make regular public appearances across the world, often at gatherings of skeptics and 
atheists. 
• At CSICon in Las Vegas in October, a few dozen fans paid $500 per head to attend a VIP luncheon 
with you and Dawkins. 
• Many more lined up to get you to sign their copy of your latest book, The Greatest Story Ever Told — 
So Far. 
• Online, people can buy T-shirts emblazoned "Lawrence Krauss for President." 
• In talks and interviews, you have argued that our universe arose without divine intervention, that 
religion drives xenophobia, and that our brains are hardwired to believe. 
• You have stated that science provides answers to many of life's biggest questions, and can even fix 
great societal injustices. 
• Earlier this year, at a Q&A event to promote your new book, the conversation came around to the 
dearth of women and minorities in science. "Science itself overcomes misogyny and prejudice and bias," you 
said. "It's built in: Questioning yourself, always questioning results, questioning others, relying on empirical 
evidence." 
• You have clashed with some skeptics over your defense of Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire financier who in 
2008 was convicted for soliciting prostitution from underage girls, and spent 13 months in a Florida jail. 
• Through his private foundation, Epstein has funded the work of several prominent scientists. He has 
provided funding for your Origins Project, supporting lectureship and scholarship programs, most recently 
pledging $100,000 in 2014. 
• In April 2011, you told the Daily Beast: "As a scientist I always judge things on empirical evidence and 
he always has women ages 19 to 23 around him, but I've never seen anything else, so as a scientist, my 
presumption is that whatever the problems were I would believe him over other people." 
• In a blog comment about the Epstein controversy, you wrote: "I remain skeptical, and I support a man 
whose character I believe I know.. .If you want to condemn me for that, so be it." 
• You were made an honorary member of CFI's board of directors in December 2011. 
• A blog post published in August 2013 described incidents #1 and #4, naming you. Another post, 
published at around the same time, described incident #5. 
• The first post was edited to remove your name after you had commented that the allegations of assault 
were "potentially illegal." The second post was quickly taken down. 
Again, if you wish to comment on or clarify any of these points, please get in touch with us as soon as possible. 
If I do not respond immediately it is because I am on another call, so please leave the best phone number to 
reach you. 
Thanks, 
Peter Aldhous 
Peter Aldhous, PhD 
Science reporter BuzzFeed News 
tel: 
cell: 
gpaldhous  
www.peteraldhous.corn 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031267 
Peter Aldhous, PhD 
Science reporter BuzzFeed News 
tel: 
cell: 
@paldhous  
www.peteraldhous.corn 
Lawrence M. Krauss 
Director, The Origins Project at ASU 
Co-Director, Cosmology Initiative 
Foundation Professor 
School of Earth & Space Exploration and Physics Department 
Arizona State University, P.O. Box 871404, Tempe, AZ 85287-1404 
Research Office: 
Origins Office 
I Assistant 
origins.asu.edu I twitter.corn/Ikraussl I krauss.faculty.asu.edu 
Asu Origins 
Project 
Arizona State Univeralty 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031268 
