The Game: All Things Trump
Andres Serrano
"In the history of science the collector of specimens
preceded the zoologist and followed the exponents of
natural theology and magic….. However lowly, the work
of the collector must be done, before he can proceed to
the higher scientific tasks of classification, analysis,
experiment and theory making."
Aldous Huxley from Heaven and Hell
Before Donald Trump was President, he was Donald Trump.
This is a portrait of that man.
In his first non-photography based installation, Andres Serrano
takes us on a curious and insightful tour for a closer look at who
Donald Trump is.
In a relatively short period of eight weeks with a determination
and competitive ferocity worthy of its subject, the artist has
amassed a collection of over 500 objects produced by or for
Donald Trump.
The collection is telling and varies from objects as mundane as
shirts, ties, suits, hats, jackets, ice buckets, Teddy Bears and
miniature screwdriver sets made for Donald Trump, his brand,
his casinos, his hotels, to Trump Tea, Trump Coffee, Trump Ice
Water, Trump Coca-Cola, Trump 7-Up, Trump Snapple, and
the more exotic $1,000 Trump Steaks (“The Best!”), Trump
Vodka packed in 24 carat gold plated bottles, a Trump deodorant
named “Success” and a Trump cologne called “Empire.”
In addition to the merchandise for Trump Plaza, Trump Harrah’s
Casino, Trump Marina, Trump Castle, Trump Tai Mahal,
Trump University and Trump Shuttle there are casino chips,
boxing invites, concert invites and many many more objects all
bearing the name “Trump.”
This colorful collection is mostly self-explanatory but the artist
plans to present each object with a museum-like label not unlike
in a curiosity cabinet or an anthropological study room.
Of particular interest are more than fifty magazines with Donald
Trump on the cover. Although, most of the magazines are ten,
twenty or more years old, there are some more recent ones
including a copy of The Atlantic from June 2016 with the cover
story, “The Mind Of Donald Trump,” Time Magazine’s issue
“Deal with it” from August 21, 2015 and another Time Magazine
dated March 14, 2016 with the words “bully, showman, party
crasher and demagogue” written across Donald Trump’s face.
All three magazines are signed by Donald Trump.
Also included are several high priced special edition items made
for VIP’s such as a beautiful Taj Mahal leather jacket and a Taj
Mahal Golf Bag and Clubs as well as a 1994 Trump Castle Casino
Birthday Invitation titled, “Trump, Lord Of The Financial Jungle.”
The centerpiece of the installation is a sizable portrait of Donald
Trump taken by Andres Serrano in 2004 for his “America” series
and a giant rotating sculpture below it. The sculpture, which is
more than 10 feet tall, is the word, EGO, spelled vertically, an
elegant sign that once greeted visitors at the entrance of Trump’s
Taj Mahal Casino's Ego Lounge.
Finally, there are several board games including “Trump
Monopoly,” “The Apprentice Game” and “Trump: The Game.”
The premise of “The Game” is stated on the box.
“It’s not whether you win or lose, it’s whether you win.”
There are different versions of “The Game,” including one in
French, all to be laid out in several locations in the gallery under
glass.
What kind of game was it, or is it? Who wins, and who loses?
That’s for the audience to decide. The artist prefers to stay neutral.
“It’s a portrait of a man painted with his own brushes,” says
Andres Serrano.
Donald Trump Signature Collection crest Striped 100%
Silk Neck Ties
Donald Trump Signature Collection Dress Shirt
Trump Taj Mahal Sweatshirt
Trump International Hotel And Tower
Las Vegas Hoodie
Trump Castle Jacket
1990 Trump Taj Mahal Leather Jacket.
Given to a select few when the casino opened. One of 200 made.

Trump Ice Water
Donald Trump - 20 Years in Atlantic City
2003, Coca-Cola Full 6 Pack
Trump Marina Casino Chip - FIRST LADY MELANIA, Atlantic City, NJ
Trump Marina Casino Chip - BIG BAD
VOODOO DADDY - Atlantic City, NJ
Trump Plaza Casino Chip - BLESS
OUR TROOPS - Atlantic City, NJ
Trump Taj Mahal Collectable Golf Bag White
Burton Tour Bag commemorating Trump Taj Mahal grand opening, April 1990.
Comes with matching rain hood and head covers. Grand opening gift for VIP's.
TRUMP STEAKS - “THE WORLD GREATEST
STEAKS” 2007
Donald Trump registered "Trump Steaks" as a U.S. trademark in August 2006. [5] Trump Steaks
were launched on May 8, 2007, exclusively through The Sharper Image catalog, stores, and
website as part of a three-month trial period. Trump Steaks were only sold at The Sharper
Image for two months before being discontinued.
TRUMP STEAKS Brochure from
The Sharper Image 2007
Miss USA 2001
Gary, Indiana
The Pageant was owned by Donald Trump from 1996 to 2015
Trump Plaza Super Bowl Football
“Sunday, February 1, 2004”

2006 Trump Vodka -750ml 24K Bottle
“Success” Deodorant Stick for Men by Donald Trump, 2.5 oz
Trump Plaza Casino - “Cash Money Tuxedo Teddy Bear”
1999


1994
July 28, 2017
1994 Poster
“Trump, Lord Of The Financial Jungle”
In 1994, this poster was sent to High Rollers inviting them to a Birthday Party for
Donald Trump. The party was held in the Crystal Ballroom at the Trump Castle.
Donald Trump: The Man, the Myth, the Scandal by Joel Reed,
published by Masquerade Books, 1990, 1st printing
Trump: The Art of The Deal By: Donald Trump With Tony Schwartz (1987)

Donald Trump “The Game. I’m Back & You’re Fired” Vintage
Board Game Donald 2004
“THE GAME”
Donald TRUMP The Game 1989 Vintage
Milton Bradley Board Game
Chairs and Table from Trump Plaza Casino
Taj Mahal EGO Lounge Sign - Trump Hotel and Casino

“Donald Trump, 2004 (America)”
Andres Serrano
