JAMES PATTERSON 
* * * 
Whatever the reasons for his resignation, Epstein still gets his 
annual bonus of around $100,000 (roughly $275,000 in today's 
dollars). The SEC never brings charges against him or any other 
Bear Stearns employee. And so the particulars of Epstein's depar-
ture get folded up into the greater mystery surrounding the man. 
Did Epstein crash the rocket ship that Ace Greenberg had given 
him to pilot? Or did he take it and fly it out, over the horizon? 
Either way, Epstein was out on his own. 
For him, the future would only get brighter. 
Ana ObregO 
Ana Obr 
c 
and we. 
ishe firsi 
roles—in the 
the star a run 
Spanish Playbc 
As for forti 
Ana's fathe 
had serious pr 
bond-trading fi 
that it was goir 
off a subsidiar3 
And in May, Di 
ed on Treast 
ad dragged do 
100 
'TERSON 
signation, Epstein still gets his 
)0 (roughly $275,000 in today's 
harges against him or any other 
ae particulars of Epstein's depar-
:r mystery surrounding the man. 
ip that Ace Greenberg had given 
Lid fly it out, over the horizon? 
on his own. 
nly get brighter. 
Ana ObregOn: 1982 
CHAPTER 24 
na ObregOn was one of the world's most beautiful women 
and well on her way to becoming famous as such when 
she first met Jeffrey Epstein. For her, there would be film 
roles—in the 1984 Bo Derek vehicle Bolero, Ana ObregOn gives 
the star a run for her money—and appearances on the covers of 
Spanish Playboy and Spanish Vanity Fair. 
As for fortune, ObregOn had that already. 
Ana's father was a very wealthy investor in Spain. But he also 
had serious problems. On June 15, 1982, a venerable stock- and 
bond-trading firm, the Drysdale Securities Corporation, announced 
that it was going out of business. Just that year, Drysdale had spun 
off a subsidiary operation called Drysdale Government Securities. 
And in May, DGS defaulted on $160 million in interest payments it 
owed on Treasury securities that it had borrowed. In doing so, DGS 
had dragged down its parent company. 
101 
100 
JAMES PATTERSON 
A very well-connected group of Spanish families—including 
members of Spain's royal family—had invested with Drysdale. 
Those investors stood to lose hundreds of millions of dollars. 
And Ana's father was one of those investors. 
What Ana wanted from Jeffrey Epstein was help in recover-
ing her father's money. 
"My father, he's done something stupid," she told him. 
A Spanish accent. A Brooklyn accent. They blended well 
together, and Ana was so very lovely. 
It turned out that Epstein was willing to help. 
"Something stupid, you see, with the money. The family 
money. Some—what do you call it? A scheme. He knew some of 
the people, but they lied to him. And now the money is gone." 
People who knew Jeffrey Epstein recall that he was bad off after 
his exit or ouster —whatever it was—from Bear Stearns. Mov-
ing from couch to couch for a while. Sleeping in his lawyer's 
offices before settling down in an apartment in the Solow Tower, 
on East 66th Street. 
It's a bit hard to believe. After all, Epstein left Bear Stearns 
with a good deal of money. But Epstein's lifestyle was expensive. 
He was a man on the make then, and Ana was still in her twen-
ties, plying her craft at the Actors Studio — the New York City 
theater institution that Marlon Brando, Robert De Niro, Jack 
Nicholson, and Jane Fonda had all been members of. 
Epstein told Ana that he'd formed a company, International 
Assets Group. 
To Ana, this sounded very impressive. In fact, JAG was a 
small operation that Epstein was running out of his apartment. 
102 
But if Ana had 
already see till 
maintain that 
who helped SE 
women he'd cu 
whole other kir 
Ones that n 
Andrew Levan( 
District of Nem. 
Force. He was a 
he was build in 
of Drysdale ex 
Epstein bringir 
Epstein came tc 
The woman 
Levander to 
lawyer named F 
himself, was as: 
hunt for the mo 
In effect, IN 
deadfalls. And 
pany were less 
to the US atton 
had violated a 
investments. 
This was w 
discretion cat 
Ana Obregol 
TERSON 
)f Spanish families—including 
—had invested with Drysdale. 
andreds of millions of dollars. 
investors. 
ey Epstein was help in recover-
ing stupid," she told him. 
lyn accent. They blended well 
.vely. 
Ls willing to help. 
e, with the money. The family 
Li it? A scheme. He knew some of 
. And now the money is gone." 
in recall that he was bad off after 
it was—from Bear Stearns. Mov-
a while. Sleeping in his lawyer's 
an apartment in the Solow Tower, 
ifter all, Epstein left Bear Stearns 
.t Epstein's lifestyle was expensive. 
Len, and Ana was still in her twen-
.ctors Studio — the New York City 
on Brando, Robert De Niro, Jack 
id all been members of. 
3. formed a company, International 
:ry impressive. In fact, IAG was a 
was running out of his apartment. 
102 
FILTHY RICH 
But if Ana had known that, would she have cared? She could 
already see that Epstein was brilliant. And though she would 
maintain that their friendship was strictly platonic, it was Ana 
who helped set Epstein on his course. Like other beautiful 
women he'd cultivate throughout his life, she opened doors to 
whole other kingdoms. 
Ones that no boys from Brooklyn had even dreamed of. 
Andrew Levander was an assistant US attorney in the Southern 
District of New York's Securities and Commodities Fraud Task 
Force. He was assigned to look into Drysdale's collapse. The case 
he was building would result in fraud convictions for a number 
of Drysdale executives, and even today, Levander remembers 
Epstein bringing "a very attractive woman" to meet him when 
Epstein came to him in the course of the investigation. 
The woman was Ana ObregOn. 
Levander told Ana that he was already working the case. A 
lawyer named Robert Gold, who was a former federal prosecutor 
himself, was assisting. And now Epstein would join them in the 
hunt for the monies. 
In effect, DGS had built a series of labyrinths, rabbit holes, 
deadfalls. And even investors who'd lost vast sums to the com-
pany were less than forthcoming when it came to speaking 
to the US attorney. Several of the investors were foreign. Some 
had violated their own countries' laws pertaining to foreign 
investments. 
This was where Epstein—with his calm, confident air of 
discretion_ came in. 
Arta Obregin gave Epstein power of attorney over any monies 
103 
JAMES PATTERSON 
that he recovered. And though it took him three years, working 
with Robert Gold and the US attorney's office, Epstein finally did 
make his way to the center of DGS's maze and recover ObregOn's 
Most of it was being held in a bank in the Cayman Islands. 
money. 
Epstein's agreement with Ana prevents us from knowing 
how much he recovered— and how much he kept. But given the 
amounts at stake, Epstein likely earned millions— or more—
and to this day Ana ObregOn has nothing but appreciation for 
what Epstein accomplished. 
"I know he's had some problems," she says. "I don't want any-
thing to do with that." 
As for Epstein, he came out of the deal with a new modus 
operandi: from now on, he'd only work with the super rich. 
104 
Eva Andersson: 
iss Swed( 
zling whi 
the stage 
winner of this, the 
Seoul, South Korea 
"And now that 
see which five girls 
Barker pauses, 
tightens. There are 1 
even if they're not ( 
"On this card 
received the highe 
interview, the swin 
Eva feels the c2 
standing in betwee. 
TERSON 
took him three years, working 
.rney's office, Epstein finally did 
iS's maze and recover ObregOn's 
bank in the Cayman Islands. 
na prevents us from knowing 
Jow much he kept. But given the 
y earned millions—or more—
Las nothing but appreciation for 
ems," she says. "I don't want any-
t of the deal with a new modus 
ly work with the super rich. 
CHAPTER 25 
Eva Andersson:July 8, 1980 
iss Sweden, Eva Birgitta Andersson, is wearing a daz-
zling white gown and sweating, ever so slightly, under 
the stage lights. But Bob Barker's about to announce the 
winner of this, the twenty-ninth Miss Universe pageant, held in 
Seoul, South Korea, and Eva's smile is as wide as the ocean. 
"And now that we know what Miss Universe will win, let's 
see which five girls are still in the running!" 
Barker pauses, like the expert broadcaster he is. Eva's chest 
tightens. There are twelve women on stage, all of them beautiful — 
even if they're not quite as beautiful as Miss Sweden. 
"On this card are the names of five contestants who have 
received the highest total score from our judges in the personal 
interview, the swimsuit, and the evening gown competition." 
Eva feels the camera pan across the stage—pan across her, 
standing in between Miss Scotland and Miss Puerto Rico. 
104 . 105 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"As a result, they will be our five finalists. As I call each name, 
you will see a figure on your television screen. That is the total 
score received by the contestant since she became a semifinalist. 
But one thing I would point out to you: the point total is not 
necessarily a sign of who our eventual winner will be. Being first 
now is no guarantee of being first at the time of our judges' final 
ballot." 
Oh, get on with it, Miss Sweden thinks. And, as if by her com-
mand, Bob Barker does. 
"Now our five finalists. Good luck, girls! The first finalist is: 
Miss Sweden!" 
Eva's hands fly up to her face. The time it takes her to walk to 
the front of the stage is all the time she needs to stop herself from 
crying. 
For Eva, it's not meant to be. Miss USA, Shawn Weatherly, wins 
that year's competition—she'll go on to become a star on Bay-
watch. But Eva's future is secure nonetheless. After the pageant, 
she'll spend three years studying in Stockholm, finish med 
school at UCLA, and become a doctor of internal medicine. 
Along the way, she'll meet Jeffrey Epstein. 
People who knew them when they were a couple say that Eva 
wanted to marry Epstein. One friend says he considered it seri-
ously. In the end, Eva ended up with a man named Glenn Dubin, 
though she and Epstein remained very close. And if Eva was the 
proverbial "one who got away," Epstein ended up dating other 
impressive women—world-class beauties—as he made his way 
in the world. 
106 
Why didn't any of 
always someone more 
corner. Perhaps none c 
urges. But he did haves 
by his side through ft 
with them. 
When he was thro 
say, they graduated up 
status of "lover" to "friE 
In his estimation, th 
The world was ful 
friendship seemed to bi 
FILTHY RICH 
ER SON 
.e finalists. As I call each name, 
vision screen. That is the total 
ince she became a semifinalist. 
to you: the point total is not 
itual winner will be. Being first 
L at the time of our judges' final 
n thinks. And, as if by her corn-
I luck, girls! The first finalist is: 
. The time it takes her to walk to 
tie she needs to stop herself from 
Liss USA, Shawn Weatherly, wins 
L go on to become a star on Bay-
:e nonetheless. After the pageant, 
Lying in Stockholm, finish med 
doctor of internal medicine. 
leffrey Epstein. 
Len they were a couple say that Eva 
e. friend says he considered it seri-
p with a man named Glenn Dubin, 
ined very close. And if Eva was the 
.y," Epstein ended up dating other 
lass beauties— as he made his way 
Why didn't any of the romances take? Perhaps there was 
always someone more fabulous waiting for Epstein around the 
corner. Perhaps none of these women satisfied Epstein's deeper 
urges. But he did have a knack for keeping the women he'd dated 
by his side through thick and thin, long after he'd broken up 
with them. 
When he was through with his girlfriends, Epstein would 
say, they graduated up, not down, the ladder, moving from the 
status of "lover" to "friend." 
In his estimation, these shifts always constituted a promotion. 
The world was full of beautiful women. But for Epstein, 
friendship seemed to be a far more precious commodity. 
106 107 
Pay me fifty million cl( 
amount. 
At first Epstein did nc 
asked that the payment — 
escrow. If his strategy we 
bounced back to the diem 
In the eighties, when 
much, much higher than 
50 percent, it was an exti 
were other ways to make 
In 1982, Epstein sold his 
relatives, and others on an 
Michael Stroll, had run M 
company known for the 13] 
Stroll put $450,000 int 
But in 1984, Michael 
repeated demands and r€ 
Epstein owed him, he got 
ment. Eventually he sued 
ing 5440,000—the case m 
Epstein told the judge tha 
ally the payment for a hor 
Like many cases invol 
of court, the terms of the f 
CHAPTER 26 
Jeffrey Epstein: 1984 
ow did Jeffrey Epstein make all his money? 
Epstein would tell stories over the years about mon-
ies recovered from slippery characters. Sometimes, friends 
and former associates would say, he'd suggest he had ties to the 
governme-nt, giving listeners the impression that he was doing 
dangerous, glamorous work. 
Others said that what Epstein really did, at this stage in his 
career, was much more banal. According to them, Epstein spent 
most of his time coming up with creative new ways for the rich 
to avoid paying taxes. The commission for tax-avoidance deals 
was enormous, although the number of deals Epstein was involved 
with is a matter of conjecture, as is his record of successes and 
But Epstein's business model was evolving. He'd charge a flat 
failures. 
fee. No fancy math. No percentages. 
108 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 26 
lake all his money? 
tories over the years about mon-
ffy characters. Sometimes, friends 
.y, he'd suggest he had ties to the 
le impression that he was doing 
em n really did, at this stage in his 
According to them, Epstein spent 
ith creative new ways for the rich 
mmission for tax-avoidance deals 
mber of deals Epstein was involved 
, as is his record of successes and 
iel was evolving. He'd charge a flat 
itages. 
108 
Pay me fifty million dollars. Or pay the IRS seven times that 
amount. 
At first Epstein did not demand his fee up front. Instead he 
asked that the payment—often a substantial one—be put into 
escrow. If his strategy worked, he'd get paid. If not, the money 
bounced back to the client. 
In the eighties, when tax rates on the top 1 percent were 
much, much higher than they are today, topping out at close to 
50 percent, it was an extremely effective pitch. And then there 
were other ways to make money. 
In 1982, Epstein sold his wealthy friends, his friends' wealthy 
relatives, and others on an oil-drilling deal. One of the investors, 
Michael Stroll, had run Williams Electronics, an entertainment 
company known for the pinball machines it made. 
Stroll put $450,000 into the oil deal. 
But in 1984, Michael Stroll wanted his money back. Despite 
repeated demands and requests for a full accounting of what 
Epstein owed him, he got $10,000 back on his $450,000 invest-
ment. Eventually he sued Epstein in federal court for the remain-
ing $440,000—the case went on for a number of years. In court, 
Epstein told the judge that the $10,000 he'd returned was actu-
ally the payment for a horse Stroll had sold him. 
Like many cases involving Epstein, this one was settled out 
of court, the terms of the final agreement kept secret. 
109 
CHAPTER 27 
Steven Hoffenberg: July 10, 1987 
Before there was Bernie Madoff, there was Steven Hoffenberg. 
In 1987, Hoffenberg was the head of Towers Financial 
Corporation, a company that bought debts, such as unpaid 
medical bills, at a very steep discount while pressing the debtors 
to repay in full. He'd started the company fifteen years earlier 
with two thousand dollars and just a handful of employees. 
Thanks, in part, to a grueling work ethic, he'd turned that into a 
much bigger concern, with twelve hundred employees and stock 
that traded over the counter. But Hoffenberg still spent fifteen 
hours each day, six days a week, in his office. 
He wanted more. Hoffenberg was a Wall Street outsider. A 
Brooklyn boy. A college dropout, like Epstein. 
One thing Hoffenberg wanted was respect. The other was 
someone who was familiar with Wall Street's inner workings. jef-
frey Epstein, who had traded options for Bear Stearns, fit the bill. 
110 
Hoffenberg began pa! 
month for Epstein's exper 
The SEC had already 
ding with him out of coy 
securities. But Hoffenberg 
In the 1980s, several n 
the greenmailing of pub 
mailing means, in practici 
investors will start buyin, 
vulnerable to takeover att 
utives at those companies 
It's risky, but very often ti 
profit. 
Yet another thing Hoi 
American World Airways. 
its downward trajectory, t 
For Hoffenberg; the 
huge. 
According to Hoffenberg, 
over of Pan Am—a deal ti 
Steven Hoffenberg stil 
listening to him, one mus 
guilty to criminal conspir, 
million swindle, a famili 
Bernie Madoff case. 
Like so many others, 
Without the necessary u: 
spent at the office, he'd als 
CHAPTER 27 
1987 
loff, there was Steven Hoffenberg. 
ras the head of Towers Financial 
hat bought debts, such as unpaid 
scount while pressing the debtors 
the company fifteen years earlier 
rid just a handful of employees. 
work ethic, he'd turned that into a 
elve hundred employees and stock 
But Hoffenberg still spent fifteen 
:k, in his office. 
)erg was a Wall Street outsider. A 
mt, like Epstein. 
anted was respect. The other was 
th Wall Street's inner workings. Jef-
pptions for Bear Stearns, fit the bill. 
110 
FILTHY RICH 
Hoffenberg began paying twenty-five thousand dollars per 
month for Epstein's expertise as a consultant. 
The SEC had already looked into Hoffenberg's affairs, set-
tling with him out of court in a matter relating to unregistered 
securities. But Hoffenberg was dangling a very big prize. 
In the 1980s, several major financial players were involved in 
the greenmailing of publicly traded companies. What green-
mailing means, in practice, is that a brokerage house or group of 
investors will start buying shares in companies that seem to be 
vulnerable to takeover attempts. To ward off the attempts, exec-
utives at those companies will buy the shares back at a premium. 
It's risky, but very often the investors stand to make a handsome 
profit. 
Yet another thing Hoffenberg wanted was to take over Pan 
American World Airways. The iconic airline had already entered 
its downward trajectory, but it was still a giant. 
For Hoffenberg, the greenmailing profits could have been 
huge. 
According to Hoffenberg, Epstein handled the attempted take-
over of Pan Am—a deal that went sideways almost immediately. 
Steven Hoffenberg still has a lot to say on the subject. But in 
listening to him, one must bear in mind that in 1995, he pleaded 
guilty to criminal conspiracy and fraud charges involving a $460 
million swindle, a familiar scheme to anyone who followed the 
Bernie Madoff case. 
Like so many others, Hoffenberg had tried to fly very high 
Without the necessary updraft. And despite all the hours he 
spent at the office, he'd also developed a taste for the high life. He 
111 
JAMES PATTERSON 
bought his own jet, a luxury yacht, and a Long Island mansion 
to go with his expensive Manhattan apartment. He'd also briefly 
owned a controlling interest in the New York Post. 
To cover his tracks, Hoffenberg had been taking money from 
investors and using it to pay previous investors. It was a classic 
Ponzi scheme—one of the biggest in history—and Hoffenberg 
ended up spending nineteen years in a federal prison. 
Why was Epstein not implicated in the case? All that Hoffen-
berg will say when asked is: "Ask Robert Gold." 
Another source suggests that Gold, the former federal prose-
cutor who had helped Epstein recover Ana ObregOn's money, 
kept the US attorney away from Epstein until there were only a 
few weeks left before the statute of limitations ran out. 
As for Epstein himself, he would always deny any wrong-
doing. Despite his proximity to Hoffenberg, he managed to avoid 
the blast radius. 
112 
Robert Meister: 1985 
Robert Meister, the vic( 
kerage and consulting 
in the mid-eighties, 
Palm Beach. Both men were 
the other looked familiar. Th 
and Meister filed the conven 
At that time, Les Wexner, w 
of Meister's insurance comp 
the people managing his mo 
Wexner was a billionaire 
were in a tangle. Maybe Epst 
would also be grateful for the 
there's evidence to suggest th 
his last Bear Stearns bonus—
recovered for Ana Obregon—
rERSON 
it, and a Long Island mansion 
an apartment. He'd also briefly 
e New York Post. 
-g had been taking money from 
Ji0US investors. It was a classic 
.st in history—and Hoffenberg 
s in a federal prison. 
ted in the case? All that Hoffen-
: Robert Gold." 
:Gold, the former federal prose-
recover Ana ObregOn's money, 
Epstein until there were only a 
of limitations ran out. 
would always deny any wrong-
Hoffenberg, he managed to avoid 
112 
CHAPTER 28 
Robert Meister: 1985 
Robert Meister, the vice chairman of a giant insurance bro-
kerage and consulting firm called Aon, met Jeffrey Epstein 
in the mid-eighties, aboard a flight from New York to 
Palm Beach. Both men were flying first class. Each one thought 
the other looked familiar. They talked in the course of that flight, 
and Meister filed the conversation away, only to recall it in 1989. 
At that time, Les Wexner, who was Meister's friend and a client 
of Meister's insurance company, was complaining to him about 
the people managing his money. 
Wexner was a billionaire, but for all his wealth, his finances 
were in a tangle. Maybe Epstein could help. And perhaps Epstein 
would also be grateful for the introduction. Hard as it is to believe, 
there's evidence to suggest that Epstein really had spent the last of 
, his last Bear Stearns bonus—along with his share of the money he'd 
recovered for Ana ObregOn—and was broke, again, at the time. 
113 
JAMES PATTERSON 
One estranged friend says that he had to loan Epstein money 
to pay the bill at Epstein's garage, which had seized Epstein's car 
for nonpayment. 
Another estranged friend says that Epstein didn't have two 
nickels to rub together. 
Diana Crane, a former model, says that Epstein always had 
first-class upgrades he would give to his friends so they didn't 
have to fly economy class. 
"No one knew where or how he got them," Crane recalls. 
"Sometimes they worked, and other times they didn't. I remem-
ber he saw a friend of mine wearing a Concorde jacket. He asked 
if he could borrow it for a day or so. My friend never got the 
jacket back. But Epstein would tell people he always flew on the 
Concorde — a total lie." 
But even if Epstein were flush, Les Wexner would have been 
a big fish to catch. 
From the get-go, Meister's wife, Wendy, had her suspicions 
about Epstein. About the way he presented himself and the way 
he worked himself into their inner circle. 
Before long, Wendy was calling Epstein the virus. 
But for Epstein, the Meisters weren't the point. Wexner was. 
And hard as it is to understand why the billionaire would 
associate with a man who'd worked with a Ponzi king like Steven 
Hoffenberg, it turned out that Wexner and Epstein would get 
along perfectly well. 
Ghislaine Maxwell 
Robert Meister v 
Epstein, the bc 
social ladder. T 
heiress from the Unite 
of the world's most gla: 
Maxwell was the 
the most famous— ev 
Robert Maxwell, was 
French Foreign Legioi 
had gone on to becon 
he'd become a media 
birth name was Jan L 
died in disgrace in 19 
Side of his supersize y 
Apoirr The shtetl Solon 
114 
ERSON 
he had to loan Epstein money 
which had seized Epstein's car 
; that Epstein didn't have two 
, says that Epstein always had 
.e to his friends so they didn't 
v he got them," Crane recalls. 
her times they didn't. I remem-
.ng a Concorde jacket. He asked 
or so. My friend never got the 
cll people he always flew on the 
h, Les Wexner would have been 
vife, Wendy, had her suspicions 
e presented himself and the way 
aer circle. 
ing Epstein the virus. 
; weren't the point. Wexner was. 
stand why the billionaire would 
-ked with a Ponzi king like Steven 
Wexner and Epstein would get 
114 
CHAPTER 29 
Ghislaine Maxwell: 1991 
Robert Meister was not the only friend who helped Jeffrey 
Epstein, the boy from Coney Island, on his way up the 
social ladder. There was also Ghislaine Maxwell, a wealthy 
heiress from the United Kingdom who'd retained her ties to some 
of the world's most glamorous and scandalous jet-setters. 
Maxwell was the youngest and most favored child of one of 
the most famous—even infamous—men in Europe. Her father, 
Robert Maxwell, was a Czech refugee who had fought in the 
French Foreign Legion and with the British in World War II and 
had gone on to become a member of Parliament. By the 1960s, 
he'd become a media baron. Born into a Hasidic family—his 
birth name was Jan Ludvik Hyman Binyamin Hoch—Maxwell 
died in disgrace in 1991 after falling or perhaps jumping off the 
Side of his supersize yacht, the Lady Ghislaine. 
"The shtetl Solotvyno, where I come from, it is no more," 
115 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Maxwell said a few months before his demise. "It was poor. It 
was Orthodox. And it was Jewish. We were very poor. We didn't 
have things that other people had. They had shoes, they had 
food, and we didn't. At the end of the war, I discovered the fate of 
my parents and my sisters and brothers, relatives, and neighbors. 
I don't know what went through their minds as they realized 
that they'd been tricked into a gas chamber." 
Maxwell's own death was followed by an international scan-
dal. It turned out that he'd stolen hundreds of millions of pounds 
from his companies' pension funds and used them to prop up his 
empire. Two of his so-ns were tried for conspiracy to commit 
fraud and ultimately exonerated. But Ghislaine, who had grown 
up in luxurious surroundings and counted the Duke of York, 
Prince Andrew, among her intimates, could not escape the dark 
shadow her father had cast. Looking to start fresh, she took the 
Concorde to New York City. 
At first, it seems, Maxwell and Epstein were lovers. "She was 
madly in love with Jeffrey," says a longtime friend of Ghislaine's. 
Then they became something more. Ghislaine took care of 
Epstein's travel arrangements. She managed his household and 
opened doors that very few Brooklyn-born Jewish boys could 
have passed through. According to lawsuits and witness testi-
mony, she also became one of several women who procured 
young girls for Epstein. 
She was not jealous, according to people who knew her back 
then. If anything, Ghislaine seemed to take pleasure in satisfy-
ing Epstein's needs. 
Ghislaine introduced Epstein to a fabulous world that the 
116 
Brooklyn boy knew noi 
taught Epstein the differ( 
But despite—or was it 
Epstein, she, too, gradi 
According to Jane Doe 
filed in 2009 by a womat 
of the services Maxwell 
ment of underage worn. 
papers, Maxwell has ve 
Virginia, with any othe 
with, or with any crimim 
In a 2016 answer to a c 
Maxwell called the alle& 
The case of Nadia B. 
first noticed by Epstein, 
in the eyes of her mothei 
Bjorlin's Iranian-bort 
years ago about her famil 
and Epstein. Bjorlin's fat 
music, had died a year 
this made the girl a vuln 
"She was at school a-
Michigan, when she met 
"My daughter was a 5 
little girl, not mature for 
thought she was nine or 
"Epstein was a big dc 
her father had died, so 4. 
He said, 'Here's my numt 
"He kept saying, `Cor 
-ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
.e his demise. "It was poor. It 
We were very poor. We didn't 
id. They had shoes, they had 
the war, I discovered the fate of 
ithers, relatives, and neighbors. 
their minds as they realized 
; chamber." 
owed by an international scan-
hundreds of millions of pounds 
Is and used them to prop up his 
ried for conspiracy to commit 
But Ghislaine, who had grown 
md counted the Duke of York, 
lates, could not escape the dark 
king to start fresh, she took the 
I Epstein were lovers. "She was 
a longtime friend of Ghislaine's. 
, more. Ghislaine took care of 
She managed his household and 
rooklyn-born Jewish boys could 
ag to lawsuits and witness testi-
)f several women who procured 
ang to people who knew her back 
emed to take pleasure in satisfy-
.ein to a fabulous world that the 
116 
Brooklyn boy knew nothing about. One friend jokes that she 
taught Epstein the difference between a fish fork and a salad fork. 
But despite—or was it because of? —Maxwell's devotion to 
Epstein, she, too, graduated from girlfriend to friend status. 
According to Jane Doe 102 vs. Jeffrey Epstein, a civil complaint 
filed in 2009 by a woman later identified as Virginia Roberts, one 
of the services Maxwell provided for Epstein was the procure-
ment of underage women. (Through her lawyer and in court 
papers, Maxwell has vehemently denied any involvement with 
Virginia, with any other young woman Epstein was involved 
with, or with any criminal activities committed by Jeffrey Epstein. 
In a 2016 answer to a defamation lawsuit brought by Roberts, 
Maxwell called the allegations fabricated for financial gain.) 
The case of Nadia Bjorlin, who was thirteen when she was 
first noticed by Epstein, raises questions in this regard, at least 
in the eyes of her mother. 
Bjorlin's Iranian-born mother spoke to a British tabloid some 
years ago about her family's disturbing experience with Maxwell 
and Epstein. Bjorlin's father, a celebrated conductor of classical 
music, had died a year earlier, the mother said. She believed that 
this made the girl a vulnerable and easy target. 
"She was at school at the famed Interlochen Arts Center, in 
Michigan, when she met Epstein," the mother said. 
"My daughter was a singer. She was a baby. She was a skinny 
little girl, not mature for her age. She was thirteen, but everyone 
thought she was nine or ten. 
"Epstein was a big donor, and he heard about Nadia and that 
her father had died, so she was vulnerable, and he contacted her. 
lie said, 'Here's my number.' 
. 
He kept saying, 'Come—will you come?' He said he wanted 
117 
JAMES PATTERSON 
to help mentor her. I wouldn't let her meet him. What sort of a 
man approaches a young girl and asks to meet her?" 
In the meantime, .Maxwell had become friendly with the 
family. "I trusted Ghislaine; she was like a mother," Bjorlin's 
mother recalled. "She was always calling my house. 
"Ghislaine didn't want me to meet Epstein, but I did anyway, 
and I asked what he wanted with Nadia. He said he wanted to 
help her singing career. He said, 'I'd like to be like a godfather.' It 
felt creepy. 
"I had a bad vibe about him and said, 'Stop!' I told him, 'No, 
thank you. She doesn't need your help.' I kept Nadia away from 
him. She never met him alone. She never went anywhere with him." 
Despite her suspicions, it took Epstein's arrest to make Bjor-
lin's mother wonder whether Maxwell and Epstein hadn't been 
sizing her daughter up for his stable of underage women. 
Leslie Wexner: 19! 
Leslie Wexner, ti 
erner. Born in 
Russian-Jewish 
shooter— taciturn ar 
For several year-5 
was the largest yacht 
Wexner's emplo) 
fiercely loyal to them 
In time, he'd corn 
"Everyone was n 
says Robert Morosk 
taller the Limited, 
"Almost everyor 
other former emp 
t of nowhere." 
1TERSON 
a her meet him. What sort of a 
I asks to meet her?" 
had become friendly with the 
Le was like a mother," Bjorlin's 
s calling my house. 
meet Epstein, but I did anyway, 
.th Nadia. He said he wanted to 
'I'd like to be like a godfather.' It 
. and said, 'Stop!' I told him, 'No, 
ur help.' I kept Nadia away from 
e never went anywhere with him." 
,ok Epstein's arrest to make Bjor-
4axwell and Epstein hadn't been 
table of underage women. 
118 
CHAPTER 30 
Leslie Wexner: 1993 
Leslie Wexner, the richest man in Ohio, is a proud midwest-
erner. Born into the rag trade (Wexner's parents were 
Russian-Jewish immigrants), he grew up to be a straight 
shooter—taciturn and camera-shy. 
For several years running, his 315-foot boat, the Limitless, 
was the largest yacht owned by an American. • 
Wexner's employees loved him, and he was known to be 
fiercely loyal to them. 
In time, he'd come to see the same qualities in Jeffrey Epstein. 
"Everyone was mystified as to what [Epstein's] appeal was," 
says Robert Morosky, a former vice chairman of the clothing 
retailer the Limited, founded by Wexner. 
"Almost everyone at the Limited wondered who he was," 
another former employee of Wexner's recalls. lie literally came 
out of nowhere." 
119 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Fi 
But it seems that Epstein did work hard to untangle Wexner's 
finances. And it appears he succeeded. "Jeffrey cleaned that up 
right away," a former associate of Epstein's says. 
The two men became all but inseparable. 
"Very smart, with a combination of excellent judgment and 
unusually high standards," Wexner said of Epstein at the time. 
"Also, he is always a most loyal friend." 
When Wexner wanted to break up with a woman he'd been 
dating for several years—a woman who moved to Ohio and con-
verted to Judaism to make him happy—he dispatched Epstein 
to do the dirty work. 
When Wexner hired a decorator for his Ohio mansion and 
wanted someone to verify the authenticity of several expensive 
antiques, Epstein flew in his friend Stuart Pivar, the renowned 
art collector and author. (According to Pivar, most of the antiques 
were cheap imitations.) When Wexner traveled abroad, he'd 
bring back trinkets and gifts for Epstein. When Wexner wanted 
to see Cats, Epstein arranged to have the cast perform in his 
mansion. 
In Ohio, Wexner's associates whispered about his relationship 
with Jeffrey Epstein. In New York, they wondered about Epstein's 
role in Wexner's 1993 marriage to Abigail Koppel. 
At thirty-one, Koppel was twenty-four years Wexner's junior. 
It was Epstein who negotiated the prenuptial agreement and 
orchestrated its very strange signing. Abigail signed the agree-
ment in her law office. Wexner signed it in his office. According - 
to an associate of Epstein's who was present, Epstein brought a 
Sports Illustrated swimsuit model along to Wexner's office, as if 
to make the point that then 
world. As a joke, Epstein pl 
belly and had Wexner sign it 
Epstein asked his friend: 
"Yes, Jeffrey," said Wexnc 
"It was an uproarious sce 
Jeffrey being Jeffrey. That wa 
'TERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
vork hard to untangle Wexner's 
eeded. "Jeffrey cleaned that up 
Epstein's says. 
.nseparable. 
ttion of excellent judgment and 
ner said of Epstein at the time. 
riend." 
!.ak up with a woman he'd been 
an who moved to Ohio and con-
happy — he dispatched Epstein 
rator for his Ohio mansion and 
.uthenticity of several expensive 
lend Stuart Pivar, the renowned 
Ling to Pivar, most of the antiques 
L Wexner traveled abroad, he'd 
r Epstein. When Wexner wanted 
to have the cast perform in his 
whispered about his relationship 
rk, they wondered about Epstein's 
!. to Abigail Koppel. 
wenty-four years Wexner's junior. 
:d the prenuptial agreement and 
Agning. Abigail signed the agree-
r signed it in his office. According 
io was present, Epstein brought a 
'del along to Wexner's office, as if 
120 
to make the point that there are other beautiful women in the 
world. As a joke, Epstein placed the agreement on the model's 
belly and had Wexner sign it right there. 
Epstein asked his friend: "Are you sure you want to do this?" 
"Yes, Jeffrey," said Wexner. "Quite sure." 
"It was an uproarious scene," Epstein's associate recalls. "Just 
Jeffrey being Jeffrey. That was his gestalt." 
121 
PART_II 
The Women 
CHAPTER 31 
Mc2 Model Management's NYC branch is looking for "highly 
motivated and energetic" interns to assist their agents part-time 
or full-time. If you're thinking to yourself, who?, it's the agency 
founded by Jean-Luc Brunel, the guy who first signed Christy 
Turlington when she was just fourteen. Responsibilities include 
scanning pictures, answering phones, assisting with updating 
models' portfolios, and working in Photoshop, Word and Excel 
(so you have to already know what you're doing in those). You 
Must: Be interested in the fashion, modeling and photography 
industries, outgoing, well spoken, and able to keep cool while 
five different people demand Starbucks / copies / phone calls / 
etc. This is a great opportunity to get hands-on experience at a 
smaller agency, plus they can offer a stipend and a Met rocard 
as well as school credit if needed. Send your resume to intern@ 
mc2mm.com Good luck! 
—Julia Hermanns, Fashionista, January 30, 2009 
125 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Jean-Luc Brunel: 2005 
IFor Jeffrey Epstein, Leslie Wexner is more than a mentor. 
More than the last in a line of older men—father figures—
whom Epstein cultivated while making his way in the 
world. 
Wexner is also a steady, if indirect, source of beautiful 
women. 
After all, Wexner is the man in charge of Victoria's Secret, 
part of the Limited family of companies and—better yet—in 
charge of the Victoria's Secret catalog. What this means for 
Epstein is models galore. In fact, like a fox that's gotten hold of 
the lease to a henhouse, Epstein, according to evidence collected 
in a later lawsuit brought by Epstein victims, eventually pro-
vided financial support for a modeling agency, and provided 
support for models employed by that agency, in New York City. 
This story begins with a Frenchman— a playboy modeling 
agent named Jean-Luc Brunel—who was an owner of the Karin 
modeling agency. 
Brunel had been working as a modeling agent since the sev-
enties. He claimed to have launched the careers of Monica Bel-
lucci, Estelle, Jerry Hall, Rachel Hunter, Milla Jovovich, Rebecca 
Romijn, Kristina Semenovskaya, Sharon Stone, and Estella War-
ren, as well as Christy Turlington and other well-known cover 
girls. Brunel had also been a subject of a 60 Minutes investiga-
tion, broadcast in 1988, into sexual exploitation in the modeling 
industry. That expose had caused Eileen Ford of the elite Ford 
modeling agency to sever her ties with the playboy. (Brunets 
activities were also chronicled in a 1995 book about the fashion 
126 
industry—Model: The 
Gross.) 
But Brunets reputat 
getting involved in his I 
According to a sun 
Edwards, a Victims' law 
Epstein alleging fabrics 
Epstein had provided sr 
its name, in 2005, from 
As a scout for MC2 
undiscovered talent, faN 
the former Soviet repuE 
eling competitions and 
eling agents and agenci 
But according to th 
the information he hac 
and Brunel had used tb 
eign countries into the 
ing contracts. These g 
belonging to Epstein. 
visa for these girls," 
underage girls rent, pre 
the condos." 
"I strongly deny I-
indirectly, in the actiol 
Brunel would say. "I st 
act or any wrongdoing 
model agencies manag 
tal standard for almosl 
According to Brui 
•ERSON. 
exner is more than a mentor. 
if older men— father figures — 
vhile making his way in the 
indirect, source of beautiful 
in charge of Victoria's Secret, 
impanies and—better yet— in 
catalog. What this means for 
, like a fox that's gotten hold of 
according to evidence collected 
pstein victims, eventually pro-
aodeling agency, and provided 
that agency, in New York City. 
:nchman— a playboy modeling 
who was an owner of the Karin 
a modeling agent since the sev-
ched the careers of Monica Bel-
Hunter, Milla Jovovich, Rebecca 
., Sharon Stone, and Estella War-
:on and other well-known cover 
ubject of a 60 Minutes investiga-
mai exploitation in the modeling 
sed Eileen Ford of the elite Ford 
ties with the playboy. (Brunel's 
in a 1995 book about the fashion 
126 
FILTHY RICH 
industry—Model: The Ugly Business of Beautiful Women, by Michael 
Gross.) 
But Brunel's reputation did not prevent Jeffrey Epstein from 
getting involved in his business. 
According to a summary judgment court filing by Bradley 
Edwards, a Victims' lawyer defending against a lawsuit by Jeffrey 
Epstein alleging fabrication of sexual assault cases against him, 
Epstein had provided support for Brunel's agency, which changed 
its name, in 2005, from Karin to MC2— as in E = mc2. 
As a scout for MC2, Brunel traveled the world in search of 
undiscovered talent, favoring Scandinavia, Israel, central Europe, 
the former Soviet republics, and South America, setting up mad-
eling competitions and negotiating with other international mod-
eling agents and agencies. 
But according to the court filing, in which Edwards detailed 
the information he had gathered in support of victims, Epstein 
and Brunel had used the agency to bring underage girls from for-
eign countries into the United States by promising them model-
ing contracts. These girls were then housed in condominiums 
belonging to Epstein. "Epstein and Brunel would then obtain a 
visa for these girls," the document states, "then charge the 
underage girls rent, presumably to live as underage prostitutes in 
the condos.." 
"I strongly deny having participated, neither directly nor 
indirectly, in the actions Mr. Jeffrey Epstein is being accused of," 
Brunel would say. "I strongly deny having committed any illicit 
act or any wrongdoing in the course of my work as a scouter or 
model agencies manager. I have exercised with the utmost 
ethi-
cal standard for almost forty years." 
;1*. According to Brunel, his association with Jeffrey Epstein 
127 
JAMES PATTERSON 
ended up having a strong negative impact on his reputation and 
business. Several photographers refused to work with him. Other 
agencies, such as Modilinos Model Management, curtailed their 
relationships with Brunel. And in 2015, Brunel filed his own 
civil lawsuit against Jeffrey Epstein, denying that he had any role 
in Epstein's illegal activities, alleging that Epstein had obstructed 
justice by telling him to avoid having his deposition taken in the 
criminal case the Palm Beach PD had built against Epstein, and 
claiming that false allegations of Brunel's links to Epstein's activ-
ities had harmed his reputation and cost him a great deal of 
business. 
In his filing, Brunel included several e-mails from industry 
contacts who expressed their doubts about placing models with 
his agency. "Parents don't want their daughters coming to us 
because [when] they google your name and the agency name the 
only things they see is 'Sex Trafficking'!!!" one correspondent 
had written. 
128 
Nadia Marcinkova: circ 
C2 has offices in I\ 
motion—flying to 
Virgin Islands. 01 
Paris. And when he comes 
where important people— c 
university presidents, Nobe 
ex-presidents, and heads of si 
Some guests marvel in p1 
do they come from? 
Nadia Marcinkova com( 
model. But Nadia's done very 
become another of Epstein's, 
According to statements 
also served as a willing accc 
on underage females. 
.RSON 
Lmpact on his reputation and 
ised to work with him. Other 
Management, curtailed their 
2015, Brunel filed his own 
, denying that he had any role 
g that Epstein had obstructed 
ag his deposition taken in the 
iad built against Epstein, and 
.unel's links to Epstein's activ-
md cost him a great deal of 
several e-mails from industry 
)ts about placing models with 
heir daughters coming to us 
Lame and the agency name the 
icking'!!!" one correspondent 
3 
CHAPTER 32 
Nadia Marcinkova: circa 2000 
C2 has offices in New York City. But Jeffrey's always in 
motion—flying to his homes in New Mexico and the 
Virgin Islands. Often to Palm Beach. Sometimes to 
Paris. And when he comes home to New York he hosts parties 
where important people—corporate titans, real estate tycoons, 
university presidents, Nobel Prize—winning scientists, princes, 
ex-presidents, and heads of state—mingle with beautiful women. 
Some guests marvel in public: Who are these women? Where 
do they come from? 
Nadia Marcinkova comes from Slovakia. She looks like a 
model. But Nadia's done very little modeling, if any. Instead she's 
become another of Epstein's girlfriends. 
According to statements given to the Palm Beach police, she's 
also served as a willing accomplice in Epstein's sexual assaults 
on underage females. 
129 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Epstein prefers diminutive women, but Nadia is tall. She's 
rail-thin and blond like the sun, with glowing skin, a wide smile, 
and sky-high cheekbones. 
On a good day, she could pass for a Bond girl—a woman 
caught up in a web of crime and intrigue. But of course, that's 
exactly what she is. 
In certain circles, the academics and the women in Epstein's 
orbit are almost a joke. In a 2003 profile of him, New York maga-
zine quotes Harvard professors ("He is amazing"), Princeton 
professors ("He changed my life"), MIT professors ("If I had acted 
upon the investment advice he has given me over the years, I'd 
be calling you from my Gulfstream right now"), and other lumi-
naries, up to and including Bill Clinton. 
"I've known Jeff for fifteen years," says Donald Trump. 
"Terrific guy; he's a lot of fun to be with." 
No one knew then that someday Trump would run for presi-
dent. (When he does, he'll attack Hillary Clinton for Bill Clinton's 
own entanglements with Epstein.) But Trump's already ahead of 
the curve in that he ends up severing his ties to Epstein well 
before the police or the media get wind of Epstein's penchant for 
underage girls. 
He does this because he finds out that in their endless hunt 
for "masseuses," Epstein's procurers have been prowling around 
Trump's estate in Palm Beach. 
130 
Virginia Roberts: 1999 
Trump's estate, Mar-
ulously wealthy he: 
sits on twenty perfi 
miles away from Jeffrey E 
home to the exclusive Mar-
courts, and a very posh rest 
Donald Trump had fou 
they blocked all his efforts I 
Other clubs on the island-
blacks and Jews— had neve 
argued. At one point he seni 
ber of the town council: Gu 
Sidney Poitier confronts his 
tleman's Agreement, in which 
in Connecticut and New Yot 
7ERSON 
Dmen, but Nadia is tall. She's 
ith glowing skin, a wide smile, 
ss for a Bond girl—a woman 
. intrigue. But of course, that's 
CHAPTER 33 
s and the women in Epstein's 
profile of him, New York maga-
("He is amazing"), Princeton 
), MIT professors ("If I had acted 
las given me over the years, I'd 
am right now"), and other lumi-
:linton. 
years," says Donald Trump. 
be with." 
.tday Trump would run for presi-
: Hillary Clinton for Bill Clinton's 
n.) But Trump's already ahead of 
ievering his ties to Epstein well 
et wind of Epstein's penchant for 
.ds out that in their endless hunt 
urers have been prowling around 
130 
Virginia Roberts: 1999 
Trump's estate, Mar-a-Lago, had once belonged to the fab-
ulously wealthy heiress Marjorie Merriweather Post. It 
sits on twenty perfectly manicured acres less than two 
miles away from Jeffrey Epstein's home on El Brillo Way. It's 
home to the exclusive Mar-a-Lago Club, which has a spa, tennis 
courts, and a very posh restaurant. 
Donald Trump had fought the town council for decades as 
they blocked all his efforts to turn the place into a private resort. 
Other clubs on the island— those with a history of excluding 
blacks and Jews— had never faced such restrictions, Trump had 
argued. At one point he sent copies of two movies to every mem-
ber of the town council: Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, in which 
Sidney Poitier confronts his girlfriend's racist parents, and Gen-
tleman's Agreement, in which a journalist confronts anti-Semitism 
In Connecticut and New York City. 
131 
JAMES PATTERSON 
f 
"Whether they love me or not, everyone agrees the greatest 
and most important place in Palm Beach is Mar-a-Lago," Trump 
told the Washington Post after winning his battle. "I took this 
ultimate place and made it incredible and opened it, essentially, 
to the people of Palm Beach. The fact that I owned it made it a lot 
easier to get along with the Palm Beach establishment." 
The Breakers hotel, Trump explained, "gets the [island's] 
leftovers." 
It cost $100,000 to join the club. Members paid $14,000 
yearly in dues. And although Epstein had never properly joined 
the club, Trump's friendship with Ghislaine Maxwell gave Epstein 
unlimited use of the facilities. 
This arrangement ended when a member's young daughter 
complained to her wealthy father: while relaxing at Mar-a-Lago, 
she'd been approached and invited out to Epstein's house. 
The girl said that she had gone and that Epstein had tried to 
get her to undress. 
The girl's father had gone directly to Trump, who—in no 
uncertain terms— told Epstein that he was barred from Mar-a-
Lago. 
Because no complaint was filed, the police had taken no 
action. But years later, a woman named Virginia Roberts would 
say that, as a young girl, she'd had an identical encounter at 
Mar-a-Lago. 
According to a court document Virginia filed in her civil 
lawsuit against Epstein, she was a changing-room assistant at 
Mar-a-Lago, earning about nine dollars an hour, when Ghislaine 
Maxwell approached her. Maxwell asked Virginia if she was 
interested in learning to be a massage therapist—which, it 
turned out, she was. Like the other girl, Virginia told her father, 
who was also employed at 
ager. But Virginia's father s 
he drove her, later that day 
There, according to thc 
ia's father that Ms. Maxwel 
for his teenage daughter. T 
room equipped with a sl 
Epstein was lying, naked, c 
Virginia was shocked, 
experience with massages, 
apy protocol. "Ms. Maxwel 
on her underwear and 
[Jeffrey's] body, impliedly 
expected to do," the filing 
[Virginia] to take off her c: 
sive about doing this, but, in 
by removing everything but 
to remove her underwear a 
escalated, with [Jeffrey] al 
battering, exploiting, and al 
in various locations, incluc 
At the end of this sexua 
Ms. Maxwell giddily told [. 
and told her she had 'lots c 
hundreds of dollars, told h 
directed one of her employe 
At the time, Virginia wa 
FILTHY RICH 
ERSON 
who was also employed at Mar-a-Lago as a maintenance man-
ager. But Virginia's father saw nothing wrong with the offer, and 
he drove her, later that day, to Epstein's house on El Brill° Way. 
There, according to the document, Maxwell assured Virgin-
ia's father that Ms. Maxwell would provide transportation home 
for his teenage daughter. Then she led Virginia upstairs, to a spa 
room equipped with a shower and a massage table. Jeffrey 
Epstein was lying, naked, on the table. 
Virginia was shocked, she says in the filing, but, with no 
experience with massages, thought this could be massage ther-
apy protocol. "Ms. Maxwell then took off her own shirt and left 
on her underwear and started rubbing her breasts across 
[Jeffrey's] body, impliedly showing [Virginia] what she was 
expected to do," the filing continues. "Ms. Maxwell then told 
[Virginia] to take off her clothes. The minor girl was apprehen-
sive about doing this, but, in fear, proceeded to follow Ms. Maxwell 
by removing everything but her underwear. She was then ordered 
to remove her underwear and straddle [Epstein]. The encounter 
escalated, with [Jeffrey] and Ms. Maxwell sexually assaulting, 
battering, exploiting, and abusing [Virginia] in various ways and 
in various locations, including the steam room and the shower. 
At the end of this sexually exploitive abuse, [Epstein] and 
Ms. Maxwell giddily told [Virginia] to return the following day 
and told her she had 'lots of potential.' [Epstein] paid [Virginia] 
hundreds of dollars, told her it was for two hours of work, and 
directed one of her employees to drive her home." 
At the time, Virginia was fifteen years old. 
133 
, everyone agrees the greatest 
Beach is Mar-a-Lago," Trump 
nning his battle. "I took this 
ible and opened it, essentially, 
act that I owned it made it a lot 
each establishment." 
.-..xplained, "gets the [island's] 
club. Members paid $14,000 
;tein had never properly joined 
Ghislaine Maxwell gave Epstein 
m a member's young daughter 
c: while relaxing at Mar-a-Lago, 
:d out to Epstein's house. 
ae and that Epstein had tried to 
irectly to Trump, who —in no 
that he was barred from Mar-a-
filed, the police had taken no 
named Virginia Roberts would 
had an identical encounter at 
ment Virginia filed in her civil 
as a changing-room assistant at 
. dollars an hour, when Ghislaine 
(well asked Virginia if she was 
a massage therapist—which, it 
ther girl, Virginia told her father, 
132 
F L 
CHAPTER 34 
Declaration of Virginia Roberts Giuffre: January 19, 
2015, filed on January 19, 2015 by attorneys 
representing Jeffrey Epstein's victims 
1. My name is Virginia Giuffre and I was born in August, 
1983. 
2. I am currently 31 years old. 
3. I grew up in Palm Beach, Florida. When I was little, I 
loved animals and wanted to be a veterinarian. But my life 
took a very different turn when adults—including Jeffrey 
Epstein and his close friend Alan Dershowitz —began to be 
interested in having sex with me. 
4. In approximately 1999, when I was 15 years old, I met 
Ghislaine Maxwell. She is the daughter of Robert Maxwell, 
who had been a wealthy publisher in Britain. Maxwell asked 
that I come with her to Jeffrey Epstein's mansion for the pur-
poses of teaching me how to perform "massages" and to train 
134 
me personally in that area. 
home in Palm Beach on El. 
5. From the first time. 
that day, his motivations c 
Maxwell's. My father was] 
up some stairs. There was c 
in the room. Epstein and 
activity with Epstein. I wc 
seemed to be in his 40s or 5 
home by one of Epstein's em 
6. I came back for sevi 
same sorts of sexual things j 
7. After I did those things 
they were going to have me tr 
cation for me. They were pro; 
travel with Epstein on his pri 
fession. Epstein said he wouli 
wealthy person so that I woul 
8. So I started "working' 
me to New York on his big, 
sion in New York City. I was 
rious room. The mansion wc 
got scared because it was si 
room with a massage parlor 
sexual activities with him thf 
9. You can see how you 
below [see insert page 3]. 
10. Epstein took me on a 
New York City and there he 
approximately 15 or 16 years 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 34 
ierts Giuffre: January 19, 
015 by attorneys 
Cs victims 
Ire and I was born in August, 
old. 
:h, Florida. When I was little, I 
be a veterinarian. But my life 
'hen adults —including Jeffrey 
41an Dershowitz —began to be 
me. 
when I was 15 years old, I met 
ie daughter of Robert Maxwell, 
tisher in Britain. Maxwell asked 
y Epstein's mansion for the pur-
Perform "massages" and to train 
134 
me personally in that area. Soon after that I went to Epstein's 
home in Palm Beach on El Brill° Way. 
5. From the first time I was taken to Epstein's mansion 
that day, his motivations and actions were sexual, as were 
Maxwell's. My father was not allowed inside. I was brought 
up some stairs. There was a naked guy, Epstein, on the table 
in the room. Epstein and Maxwell forced me into sexual 
activity with Epstein. I was 15 years old at the time. He 
seemed to be in his 40s or 50s. I was paid $200. I was driven 
home by one of Epstein's employees. 
6. I came back for several days following and did the 
same sorts of sexual things for Epstein. 
7. After I did those things for Epstein, he and Maxwell said 
they were going to have me travel and were going to get an edu-
cation for me. They were promising me the world, that I would 
travel with Epstein on his private jet and have a well-paid pro-
fession. Epstein said he would eventually match me up with a 
wealthy person so that I would be "set up" for life. 
8. So I started "working" exclusively for Epstein. He took 
me to New York on his big, private jet. We went to his man-
sion in New York City. I was shown to my room, a very luxu-
rious room. The mansion was huge. I was very young and I 
got scared because it was so big. Epstein brought me to a 
room with a massage parlor. Epstein made me engage [in] 
sexual activities with him there. 
9. You can see how young I looked in the photograph 
below [see insert page 3]. 
10. Epstein took me on a ferry boat on one of the trips to 
New York City and there he took the picture above. I was 
approximately 15 or 16 years old at the time. 
135 
JAMES PATTERSON 
11. Over the next few weeks, Jeffrey Epstein and Ghis-
laine Maxwell trained me to do what they wanted, including 
sexual activities. The training was in New York and Florida, 
at Epstein's mansion. It was basically every day and it was 
like going to school. I also had to have sex with Epstein many 
times. 
12. I was trained to be "everything a man wanted me to 
be." It wasn't just sexual training—they wanted me to be 
able to cater to all the needs of the men they were going to 
send me to. They said that they loved that I was very compli-
ant and knew how to keep my mouth shut about what they 
expected me to do. 
13. Epstein and Maxwell also told me that they wanted 
me to produce information for them in addition to perform-
ing sex on the men. They told me to pay attention to the 
details about what the men wanted, so I could report back to 
them. 
14. While I had juvenile hopes of bettering my life, from 
very early on I was also afraid of Epstein. Epstein told me he 
was a billionaire. I told my mother that I was working for 
this rich guy, and she said "go, go far away." Epstein had 
promised me a lot, and I knew if I left I would be in big trou-
ble. I was witness to a lot of illegal and bad behavior by 
Epstein and his friends. If I left Epstein, he knew all kinds of 
powerful people. He could have had me killed or abducted, 
and I knew he was capable of that if I did not obey him. He 
let me know that he knew many people in high places. Speak-
ing about himself, he said "I can get away" with things. Even 
as a teenager, I understood what this meant and it scared me, 
as I believe he intended. 
FILTE 
15. I visited and traveled 
through the summer of 2002 
with him for sexual activities 
sions) in locations including 
area of Santa Fe, New Me 
island in the U.S. Virgin Islam 
with him often in these places 
pie he demanded that I have 
many of these sexual encounte 
my only purposes for Epsteir 
was to be used for sex. 
16. To illustrate my connel 
four photographs taken of me in 
for one of the photographs in 
museum in Santa Fe, New Mexi, 
the day. Epstein took this picture 
at the time, judging from the lo( 
we returned to Epstein's Zorro 
on one of Epstein's horses on 0, 
following two are from wintertirr 
17. When I was with him, Ei 
girls on a daily basis. His inte 
obvious to the people around 
obvious and bold that anyone sj 
at one of Epstein's residences wc 
of what was going on. 
18. Epstein's code word for s( 
was a "massage." At times the 
and the girls would start in the r 
was always a sexual encounter a 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
s, Jeffrey Epstein and Ghis-
what they wanted, including 
as in New York and Florida, 
sically every day and it was 
) have sex with Epstein many 
rything a man wanted me to 
ing— they wanted me to be 
f the men they were going to 
loved that I was very compli-
mouth shut about what they 
tlso told me that they wanted 
them in addition to perform-
d me to pay attention to the 
nted, so I could report back to 
Jpes of bettering my life, from 
of Epstein. Epstein told me he 
wther that I was working for 
go, go far away." Epstein had 
if I left I would be in big trou-
f illegal and bad behavior by 
ft Epstein, he knew all kinds of 
we had me killed or abducted, 
f that if I did not obey him. He 
r-iy people in high places. Speak-
an get away" with things. Even 
licit this meant and it scared me, 
136 
15. I visited and traveled with Jeffrey Epstein from 1999 
through the summer of 2002, and during that time I stayed 
with him for sexual activities at each of his houses (or man-
sions) in locations including New York City, New York; the 
area of Santa Fe, New Mexico; Palm Beach, Florida; an 
island in the U.S. Virgin Islands; and Paris, France. I had sex 
with him often in these places and also with the various peo-
ple he demanded that I have sex with. Epstein paid me for 
many of these sexual encounters. Looking back, I realize that 
my only purposes for Epstein, Maxwell, and their friends 
was to be used for sex. 
16. To illustrate my connection to these places, I include 
four photographs taken of me in New Mexico [see insert page 3 
for one of the photographs mentioned]. The first one is a 
museum in Santa Fe, New Mexico. We had gone sightseeing for 
the day. Epstein took this picture of me. I was approximately 17 
at the time, judging from the looks of it. At the end of the day 
we returned to Epstein's Zorro Ranch. The second picture is me 
on one of Epstein's horses on the ranch in New Mexico. The 
following two are from wintertime in New Mexico. 
17. When I was with him, Epstein had sex with underage 
girls on a daily basis. His interest in this kind of sex was 
obvious to the people around him. The activities were so 
obvious and bold that anyone spending any significant time 
at one of Epstein's residences would have clearly been aware 
of what was going on. 
18. Epstein's code word for sexual encounters was that it 
was a "massage." At times the interaction between Epstein 
and the girls would start in the massage room setting, but it 
was always a sexual encounter and never just a massage. 
137 
JAMES PATTERSON 
19. In addition to constantly finding underage girls to 
satisfy their personal desires, Epstein and Maxwell also got 
girls for Epstein's friends and acquaintances. Epstein specifi-
cally told me that the reason for him doing this was so that 
they would "owe him," they would "be in his pocket," and he 
would "have something on them." I understood that Epstein 
thought he could get leniency if he was ever caught doing 
anything illegal, or that he could escape trouble altogether. 
Roberts submitted her declaration in support of a motion to 
be added as a plaintiff in a suit (ongoing, as of this writing) that 
sought to overturn a non-prosecution agreement that Jeffrey 
Epstein would reach with the government. Roberts was seeking 
to join a case brought against the government by two other vic-
tims, but a judge denied her motion in April of 2015, explaining 
that the case had already been pending for several years, and it 
was unneccesary to add an additional plaintiff. 
Roberts's declaration, which goes on for another eight pages, and 
makes twenty-four additional points, was stricken from the record—
the judge explained that the "lurid" and "unnecessary details" 
involving "non-parties" to the lawsuit against the government, were 
"immaterial and impertinent" to the proceedings. 
Through a representative, Ghislaine Maxwell called the 
allegations against her "obvious lies," after which Roberts filed a 
defamation suit against Maxwell. In an answer filed in the suit, 
Maxwell elaborated that Roberts's "story of abuse at the hands of 
Ms. Maxwell" was "fabricated" for financial gain. 
138 
Alicia: May 20, 1997 
Donald Trump's instin 
solid. But if the repc 
into Epstein's myster 
ther, there's a chance they wc 
not just in Palm Beach. 
In California, for instan 
from the Santa Monica Police 
In the spring—almost the 
the police. The young woman I 
appeared on Baywatch and Gei 
ally assaulted at a trendy hotel 
The officer who took th 
Alicia* — and her voice. A w 
* Alicia's name, some identifying 
"ERSON 
y finding underage girls to 
Dstein and Maxwell also got 
quaintances. Epstein specifi-
r him doing this was so that 
tld "be in his pocket," and he 
1." I understood that Epstein 
if he was ever caught doing 
I escape trouble altogether. 
ation in support of a motion to 
Ingoing, as of this writing) that 
cution agreement that Jeffrey 
vernment. Roberts was seeking 
e government by two other vic-
ion in April of 2015, explaining 
)ending for several years, and it 
ional plaintiff. 
)es on for another eight pages, and 
its, was stricken from the record—
urid" and "unnecessary details" 
'suit against the government, were 
he proceedings. 
Ghislaine Maxwell called the 
lies," after which Roberts filed a 
11. In an answer filed in the suit, 
s's "story of abuse at the hands of 
for financial gain. 
138 
CHAPTER 35 
Alicia: May 20, 1997 
Donald Trump's instincts regarding Jeffrey Epstein were 
solid. But if the reporters who were beginning to look 
into Epstein's mysterious background had dug a bit fur-
ther, there's a chance they would have hit pay dirt as well—and 
not just in Palm Beach. 
In California, for instance, a paper trail already stretched 
from the Santa Monica Police Department to Epstein's front door. 
In the spring—almost the summer—of 1997, a call came in to 
the police. The young woman who placed it—a young actress who'd 
appeared on Baywatch and General Hospital—said she'd been sexu-
ally assaulted at a trendy hotel called Shutters on the Beach. 
The officer who took the call knew the woman's name — 
Alicia*—and her voice. A week earlier, she'd told him about an 
* Alicia's name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been changed. 
139 
JAMES PATTERSON 
f 
F L-
encounter with Epstein. The woman had not wanted to make a 
formal complaint at the time. But she had taken the cop's card, 
and now he was happy to hear that she'd changed her mind. 
In a shaky voice, Alicia described Epstein as a tallish man—
five feet eleven or six feet in height was her guess—with gray 
hair and brown eyes. He was the owner of a large black four-door 
Mercedes and was a regular at Shutters on the Beach, which was 
the kind of place that cost one thousand dollars a night and was 
frequented by actors, agents, and other Hollywood types. 
Alicia told the cop that she was a model and actress herself. 
She'd known Epstein for about a month. They had a friend in 
common, and she'd sent him her head shots. 
Then, through an assistant, Epstein had invited her to meet 
in his room at the hotel. 
Alicia said she was having reservations, the officer wrote in his 
report, because generally interviews are not conducted in hotel 
rooms. 
According to her, things turned frightening quickly. 
She was unsure she was safe because although she wanted to 
land the job as a 'Victoria's Secret' catalog model she felt as 
though Epstein was attempting to get her to act in an unpro-
fessional manner for a model. 
Epstein wore navy blue sweatpants and a white T-shirt, she 
recalled. The T-shirt had the letters USA printed on it in patriotic 
red, white, and blue. 
Epstein told her to undress and actually assisted her to do so 
while saying let me manhandle you for a second.' 
1 
Then, Alicia told the cop, 
her will while acting as thoue, 
had stopped Epstein, and left 
incident. 
At the top of his crime 
Battery." But Epstein was ne. 
Santa Monica Police Departme 
allegations of improper condu 
no action on this 1997 comp 
attorney, Jack Goldberger, told 
"The cops said it'd be my 
paper. "And since he had a 
thought much about it since, I 
now, I want everybody to kno. 
been." 
TERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
aan had not wanted to make a 
t she had taken the cop's card, 
at she'd changed her mind. 
bed Epstein as a tallish man—
ght was her guess—with gray 
)wner of a large black four-door 
utters on the Beach, which was 
.ousand dollars a night and was 
other Hollywood types. 
ias a model and actress herself. 
a month. They had a friend in 
head shots. 
Epstein had invited her to meet 
:rvations, the officer wrote in his 
iews are not conducted in hotel 
aed frightening quickly. 
wcause although she wanted to 
ecret' catalog model she felt as 
.g to get her to act in an unpro-
ntpants and a white T-shirt, she 
ters USA printed on it in patriotic 
id actually assisted her to do so 
Ile you for a second.' 
140 
Then, Alicia told the cop, Epstein groped her buttocks against 
her will while acting as though he was evaluating her body. Alicia 
had stopped Epstein, and left the room, but couldn't get over the 
incident. 
At the top of his crime report, the officer wrote "Sexual 
Battery." But Epstein was never charged in the incident. "The 
Santa Monica Police Department discounted every one of [Alicia's] 
allegations of improper conduct by Jeffrey Epstein and they took 
no action on this 1997 complaint," Epstein's West Palm Beach 
attorney, Jack Goldberger, told the Palm Beach Post in 2010. 
"The cops said it'd be my word against his," Alicia told the 
paper. "And since he had a lot of money, I let it go. I hadn't 
thought much about it since, until I saw his picture online. And 
now, I want everybody to know how much of a creep he's always 
been." 
141 
CHAPTER 36 
Graydon Carter: December 2002 
Graydon Carter, the legendary editor of Vanity Fair, likes to 
get to his office early, well before the rest of his staff 
files in. 
Most monthly magazines operate at a leisurely pace— three 
weeks of coming up with ideas, assigning articles, and shooting 
the shit in the corporate kitchen followed by one frantic week 
when all the actual editing gets done. But this isn't the case at 
Vanity Fair, which runs hard-hitting investigative pieces along-
side its glitzy celebrity profiles. There are also parties to plan 
and host—incredibly glamorous parties, including the annual 
Oscar-night bash, which is more fun and far more exclusive than 
the Academy Awards ceremony itself. Vanity Fair is an old, 
famous brand. But Carter is its public face, just as Anna Wintour 
is the face of Conde Nast's iconic fashion magazine, Vogue. 
142 
One cover of Vanity 
superstar. And a single tl 
down a corporate overlorC 
Carter's easy to recogr 
a lion's mane. The Santa ( 
tailored bespoke suit. He N 
be more serious about hi! 
heavily on him this mond 
to Vicky Ward, an English 
ity Fair. He'd meant for it 
pregnant with twins. She 
story right on her doorster 
Who was he, really? Cal 
attended by academics, billi 
he'd flown Bill Clinton tc 
how he had made his fort 
tor of F. Scott Fitzgerald's 
Carter himself could h 
his case, the author would 
dropout who'd worked as 
York in his late twenties a] 
rise up the social and med 
and outgoing, Epstein real 
him was known. Maybe, 
What did Epstein do, exact 
Why were so many brillh. 
And where did those beaut 
Almost immediately, E 
Ward. He prevailed upon 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 36 
2002 
ary editor of Vanity Fair, likes to 
yell before the rest of his staff 
)erate at a leisurely pace—three 
assigning articles, and shooting 
tn followed by one frantic week 
s done. But this isn't the case at 
itting investigative pieces along-
;. There are also parties to plan 
us parties, including the annual 
e fun and far more exclusive than 
fly itself. Vanity Fair is an old, 
public face, just as Anna Wintour 
ic fashion magazine, Vogue. 
142 
One cover of Vanity Fair can turn a minor celebrity into a 
superstar. And a single thoroughly researched story can bring 
down a corporate overlord. 
Carter's easy to recognize: the pompadour of white hair, like 
a lion's mane. The Santa Claus body stuffed into an impeccably 
tailored bespoke suit. He wears his fame lightly. But he could not 
be more serious about his responsibilities, which are weighing 
heavily on him this month. Months earlier, he'd assigned a piece 
to Vicky Ward, an Englishwoman who wrote frequently for Van-
ity Fair. He'd meant for it to be an easy assignment: Ward was 
pregnant with twins. She wasn't allowed to fly. But here was a 
story right on her doorstep. A nice, easy profile of Jeffrey Epstein. 
Who was he, really? Carter knew he threw fabulous parties 
attended by academics, billionaires, and beautiful women. Recently 
he'd flown Bill Clinton to Africa. But no one seemed to know 
how he had made his fortune. Epstein's story reminded the edi-
tor of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby. 
Carter himself could have stepped out of a novel—though in 
his case, the author would be Horatio Alger. A Canadian college 
dropout who'd worked as a railroad lineman, he arrived in New 
York in his late twenties and commenced an astonishingly quick 
rise up the social and media ladders. But where Carter was open 
and outgoing, Epstein really was Gatsby-like— very little about 
him was known. Maybe, Carter thought, Ward could find out. 
What did Epstein do, exactly, for money? Why was he so secretive? 
Why were so many brilliant and powerful men drawn to him? 
And where did those beautiful women come from? 
Almost immediately, Epstein began a campaign to discredit 
Ward. He prevailed upon Conrad Black, the press baron and 
143 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Epstein's Palm Beach neighbor —who was also a step-uncle of 
Vicky Ward's husband— to ask Ward to drop the story. But Ward 
was tenacious, and what she came back with was dynamite. 
More interesting and much more salacious than anything Carter 
had imagined. 
Now Carter's staff was putting in the hours it would take to 
confirm all the things she'd uncovered, picking the ones they 
could publish and laying them all out in a narrative that would 
be no less explosive than the facts it contained. 
Vicky Ward: October 
Epstein went out of 1 
his own ends, and s 
Ward's phone bega 
Greenberg and Jimmy Q 
from Les Wexner; from. 
shakers who counted Eps 
Then there were the c 
go on the record, but di 
Ward's back, he was hap 
tour of his Manhattan m; 
dined out on for years. 
extremely charming—el 
him which forks to use 
Vicky Ward. But she was 
to have a keen eye for Ep5 
144 
TTERSON 
—who was also a step-uncle of 
Ward to drop the story. But Ward 
:ame back with was dynamite. 
e salacious than anything Carter 
ing in the hours it would take to 
ricovered, picking the ones they 
all out in a narrative that would 
cts it contained. 
144 
CHAPTER 37 
Vicky Ward: October 2002 
pstein went out of his way to spin the Vanity Fair story to 
his own ends, and soon after she got the assignment, Vicky 
Ward's phone began to ring off the hook: calls from Ace 
Greenberg and Jimmy Cayne, the current head of Bear Stearns; 
from Les Wexner; from academics, scientists, and movers and 
shakers who counted Epstein among their friends. 
Then there were the calls from Epstein himself. He wouldn't 
go on the record, but despite the rumors he'd spread behind 
Ward's back, he was happy to talk informally, even give her a 
tour of his Manhattan mansion and trot out stories that he had 
dined out on for years. By most accounts, Epstein could be 
extremely charming—even if it had taken Ghislaine to teach 
him which forks to use when—and he did his best to charm 
Vicky Ward. But she was not easily seduced, and she turned out 
to have a keen eye for Epstein's missteps. 
145 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Over tea in his town house, she noticed, Epstein ate all the 
finger food that had been put out for both of them. She found it 
odd that the only book this supposedly brilliant man had left for 
her to see was a paperback by the Marquis de Sade. And then 
there was the call afterward from one of Epstein's assistants— a 
woman Ward did not know—who told her, "Jeffrey wanted me 
to tell you that you looked so pretty." 
Ward is pretty, with fine English features and flowing blond 
hair. She was also very pregnant then, with a bad case of morn-
ing sickness. She threw up often, sometimes in public, and these 
clumsy advances on Epstein's part only added to her ever-present 
nausea. For a man who was supposedly brilliant, he'd struck her, 
oddly, as not very smart. 
"Epstein is charming, but he doesn't let the charm slip into 
his eyes," she wrote. "They are steely and calculating, giving 
some hint at the steady whir of machinery running behind them. 
'Let's play chess,' he said to me, after refusing to give an inter-
view for this article. 'You be white. You get the first move.' It was 
an appropriate metaphor for a man who seems to feel he can win 
no matter what the advantage of the other side. His advantage is 
that no one really seems to know him or his history completely 
or what his arsenal actually consists of. He has carefully engi-
neered it so that he remains one of the few truly baffling myster-
ies among New York's moneyed world. People know snippets, 
but few know the whole." 
The testimonials Epstein's friends gave were glowing: "I 
think we both possess the skill of seeing patterns," Les Wexner 
told her. "Jeffrey sees patterns in politics and financial markets, 
and I see patterns in lifestyle and fashion trends. My skills are 
146 
not in investment strateg 
knows, his are not in fast 
world trends as each of u: 
"I'm on my 20th boc 
Epstein in 1997. "The ont 
ily that I send drafts to is 
But Ward also talked 
questions and qualms abc 
in lawsuits against him. C 
with him. One who had 
board of Rockefeller UniN 
One powerful investn 
conspicuous absence froi 
ing desks don't seem to 
animals that big to not le; 
Ward uncovered lega 
view with the SEC, given 
Stearns. She visited a fed. 
at length with Steven Ho. 
made a major mistake in 
told him to stay below th( 
accusations, about Epste 
denied—and Ward kne 
mastermind, was not to b 
throughout the reporting 
concerned with what sh 
with what she'd uncovere 
Time and again, he 
have on the girls?" 
TERSON 
• FILTHY RICH 
she noticed, Epstein ate all the 
t for both of them. She found it 
3sedly brilliant man had left for 
he Marquis de Sade. And then 
one of Epstein's assistants— a 
ho told her, "Jeffrey wanted me 
Ity." 
;lish features and flowing blond 
. then, with a bad case of morn-
sometimes in public, and these 
rt only added to her ever-present 
)osedly brilliant, he'd struck her, 
.e doesn't let the charm slip into 
e steely and calculating, giving 
nachinery running behind them. 
after refusing to give an inter-
bite. You get the first move.' It was 
nan who seems to feel he can win 
3f the other side. His advantage is 
OW him or his history completely 
Dnsists of. He has carefully engi-
Le of the few truly baffling myster-
ed world. People know snippets, 
s friends gave were glowing: "I 
11 of seeing patterns," Les Wexner 
in politics and financial markets, 
and fashion trends. My skills are 
146 
not in investment strategy, and, as everyone who knows Jeffrey 
knows, his are not in fashion and design. We frequently discuss 
world trends as each of us sees them." 
"I'm on my 20th book," said Alan Dershowitz, who'd met 
Epstein in 1997. "The only person outside of my immediate fam-
ily that I send drafts to is Jeffrey." 
But Ward also talked to other sources, who had their own 
questions and qualms about Jeffrey Epstein. Some were involved 
in lawsuits against him. Others had served on prestigious boards 
with him. One who had witnessed Epstein's aborted stint on the 
board of Rockefeller University called him arrogant. 
One powerful investment manager wondered about Epstein's 
conspicuous absence from New York's trading floors. "The trad-
ing desks don't seem to know him," he says. "It's unusual for 
animals that big to not leave any footprints in the snow." 
Ward uncovered legal documents, including Epstein's inter-
view with the SEC, given in the wake of his departure from Bear 
Stearns. She visited a federal prison in Massachusetts and spoke 
at length with Steven Hoffenberg, who told her that Epstein had 
made a major mistake in taking Bill Clinton to Africa. "I always 
told him to stay below the radar," Hoffenberg said. He made other 
accusations, about Epstein's financial practices, which Epstein 
denied—and Ward knew that Hoffenberg, the Ponzi-scheme 
mastermind, was not to be trusted. But she did find it strange that 
throughout the reporting process Epstein was much less openly 
concerned with what she'd found out about his finances than 
with what she'd uncovered about his dealings with women. 
Time and again, he would call and ask her: "What do you 
have on the girls?" 
147 
JAMES PATTERSON 
* * * 
One young woman Ward talked to had been invited by Ghis-
laine Maxwell to attend a party at Epstein's town house. There, 
the woman had noticed, female guests far outnumbered the male 
guests. "These were not women you'd see at Upper East Side din-
ners," the woman had said. "Many seemed foreign and dressed a 
little bizarrely." 
"This same guest also attended a cocktail party thrown by 
Maxwell that Prince Andrew attended, which was filled, she 
says, with young Russian models," Ward wrote. "'Some of the 
guests were horrified,' the woman says." 
Another source, one who had worked with Epstein, said, 
"He's reckless, and he's gotten more so. Money does that to you. 
He's breaking the oath he made to himself—that he would never 
do anything that would expose him in the media. Right now, in 
the wake of the publicity following his trip with Clinton, he 
must be in a very difficult place." 
148 
Vicky Ward: Novembe 1 
Ivhat I had 'on ti 
Beast article pu 
some remarkab. 
on-the-record stories from 
who came from Phoenix. ' 
character was vouchsafed 
the artist Eric Fischl, had I 
ing room, of how Epstein h 
separately, her younger sist 
Ward had written it all 
the t's, dotted the i's. 
But when she called El 
the allegations completely. 
"Just the mention of 2 
CTERSON 
to had been invited by Ghis-
at Epstein's town house. There, 
;uests far outnumbered the male 
you'd see at Upper East Side din-
ay seemed foreign and dressed a 
ded a cocktail party thrown by 
attended, which was filled, she 
.1s," Ward wrote. "'Some of the 
an says." 
had worked with Epstein, said, 
nore so. Money does that to you. 
to himself— that he would never 
him in the media. Right now, in 
)wing his trip with Clinton, he 
148 
CHAPTER 38 
Vicky Ward: November 2002 
What I had 'on the girls," Ward explained in a Daily 
Beast article published after Epstein's arrest, "were 
some remarkably brave first-person accounts. Three 
on-the-record stories from a family: a mother and her daughters 
who came from Phoenix. The oldest daughter, an artist whose 
character was vouchsafed to me by several sources, including 
the artist Eric Fischl, had told me, weeping as she sat in my liv-
ing room, of how Epstein had attempted to seduce both her and, 
separately, her younger sister, then only 16." 
Ward had written it all down in her notes. She had crossed 
the ifs, dotted the i's. 
But when she called Epstein to get his response, he denied 
the allegations completely. 
"Just the mention of a 16-year-old girl," Epstein told her, 
149 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"carries the wrong impression. I don't see what it adds to the 
piece. And that makes me unhappy." 
If some sort of criminal investigation had taken place, that 
would have been one thing. But, at that time, no criminal 
investigation into Epstein's affairs had been launched. And in 
the absence of an investigation, the rumors of Epstein's dealings 
with very young women seemed to be just that—rumors. 
Graydon Carter consulted his lawyers, his editors, and his 
fact-checkers. And then something odd and disturbing happened 
at the Conde Nast building, then in Times Square. 
As usual, Carter had come into the office early. He swiped his 
key card in the lobby, pressed the elevator button, and arrived in 
the hallway outside the reception area on the twenty-first floor. 
It would have been a perfect time to review Ward's story. 
Her description of Epstein's town house—which is said to 
have been the largest private residence in New York City at the 
time—was priceless: "Inside, amid the flurry of menservants 
attired in sober black suits and pristine white gloves, you feel 
you have stumbled into someone's private Xanadu," she'd writ-
ten. "This is no mere rich person's home, but a high-walled, 
eclectic, imperious fantasy that seems to have no boundaries. 
The entrance hall is decorated not with paintings but with row 
upon row of individually framed eyeballs; these, the owner tells 
people with relish, were imported from England, where they 
were made for injured soldiers. Next comes a marble foyer, which 
does have a painting, in the manner of Jean Dubuffet ... but the 
host coyly refuses to tell visitors who painted it. In any case, 
150 
dr 
One of the photogra-
captured on video during 
Palm Beach Police Departm 
search warrant walk-throi 
of Epstein's El Brillo N 
residence (Palm Beach Pc 
Departin 
Jeffrey Epstein, Coney Isl 
circa 1969 (Anonym 
CHAPTER 52 
Jeffrey Epstein: June 30, 2008 
The Palm Beach County Main Detention Center is on the 
west side of Lake Worth Lagoon, which separates West 
Palm Beach from the island of Palm Beach. Epstein's 
home on El Brillo Way is five miles to the east. Mary's high 
school is several miles to the west. 
It's fitting, somehow, that this jail—which is the jail Epstein 
ends up in, after turning himself in to the local sheriff—lies in 
between the two points. 
The detention center's inmates, their families, and their law-
yers call it the Gun Club, a reference not only to the jail's address, 
on Gun Club Road, but also to its population of hustlers, bur-
glars, drug dealers, rapists, and murderers. There's the occa-
sional hooker as well. And, from time to time, Haitian refugees 
are lodged there. 
There are three thousand inmates in all. 
199 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Some wait a year before making their way to the courthouse, 
their date with the public defender, and an appearance before 
the judge. Some get out much sooner, if only they can make bail. 
But there's no bail without money—or at least collateral—and, 
of course, being without money is often what lands people in jail 
in the first place. 
Jeffrey Epstein could have posted bail for every single inmate 
in the Gun Club. 
But that's just one of the ways in which Epstein is unlike his 
fellow inmates. He's an admitted pedophile now. Even a famous one. 
And, famously, pedophiles tend to fare poorly in jail. 
Luckily for Epstein, Ric Bradshaw, the sheriff in charge of 
local jails, transfers Epstein to the infirmary, where he spends 
exactly one night before being transferred seven miles up the 
road to a much smaller, safer location: the Palm Beach County 
Central Detention Center—or, as it's known, the Stockade. 
"It's not somewhere we'd put a serial killer," Ric Bradshaw says. 
Most of the residents here are addicts who take part in drug 
education programs, prostitutes, petty criminals, and drunks. 
It's a far safer place for Epstein to be, and, unlike other inmates 
(except, of course, those being held in solitary), he'll end up with 
his own cell, even his own wing, which he has to himself. 
Epstein's allowed to pay for a security guard, who sits outside the 
cell and keeps watch. And he's allowed any number of visitors. 
For a convicted felon, it's an extraordinary benefits package. 
But according to Sheriff Bradshaw, who also oversees the Stock-
ade, Epstein is incredulous over the treatment he is receiving. 
"He was astonished that he had to go to prison at all," Brad-
shaw remembers. 
"Let's just say he didn't think he belonged there." 
200 
Sheriff Ric Bradshaw: Jun( 
ur job," says Ric Brads] 
killed him." 
Sheriff Bradshaw co 
Western. Imposingly tall, witl-
mustache, and slow, southern 
old-school law officer-- the kil 
patrolling the streets of Tombst 
He's been a lawman for forty-fi 
been spent as the head of the co 
talk to the media, and today, as 
he's clearly uncomfortable, fidgei 
But here in his wood-panele 
Gun Club, Bradshaw remembers 
"We have a thousand sexua 
says. "When he arrived here, he 
20, 
ATTERSON 
King their way to the courthouse, 
mder, and an appearance before 
ooner, if only they can make bail. 
Rey— or at least collateral—and, 
is often what lands people in jail 
posted bail for every single inmate 
ays in which Epstein is unlike his 
[ pedophile now. Even a famous one. 
tend to fare poorly in jail. 
radshaw, the sheriff in charge of 
.o the infirmary, where he spends 
transferred seven miles up the 
location: the Palm Beach County 
r, as it's known, the Stockade. 
it a serial killer," Ric Bradshaw says. 
are addicts who take part in drug 
ates, petty criminals, and drunks. 
in to be, and, unlike other inmates 
,g held in solitary), he'll end up with 
wing, which he has to himself. 
security guard, who sits outside the 
•.'s allowed any number of visitors. 
an extraordinary benefits package. 
radshaw, who also oversees the Stockrer the treatment he is receiving. 
he had to go to prison at all," Brad-
hink he belonged there." 
200 
CHAPTER 53 
Sheriff Ric Bradshaw: June 2015 
ur job," says Ric Bradshaw, "was to make sure nobody 
killed him." 
Sheriff Bradshaw could have stepped off the set of a 
Western. Imposingly tall, with his cowboy hat, Kurt Russell 
mustache, and slow, southern drawl, he looks exactly like an 
old-school law officer—the kind you once would have found 
patrolling the streets of Tombstone, Deadwood, or Dodge City. 
He's been a lawman for forty-four years, eleven of which have 
been spent as the head of the county's jails. As a rule, he doesn't 
talk to the media, and today, as he talks about Jeffrey Epstein, 
he's clearly uncomfortable, fidgety, and ill disposed. 
But here in his wood-paneled office on the first floor of the 
Gun Club, Bradshaw remembers Epstein quite well. 
"We have a thousand sexual predators in the county," he 
says. "When he arrived here, he was one of them. He definitely 
201 
JAMES PATTERSON 
fit the category we have to ensure the general population is not 
going to take their anger out on." 
Although he understands that Epstein is a sex offender 
and has a sense of the scope of his alleged crimes, Bradshaw's 
also aware that the actual conviction was for a "low-level felony." 
At the request of Epstein's attorneys—a request that is con-
firmed by a court order—Epstein is quickly granted "work 
release." 
What it means in practice is that six days a week, for up to 
sixteen—sixteen! —hours each day, Epstein is allowed to leave 
the Stockade to be driven by a designated driver in a car ear-
marked especially for him to any one of three places: his lawyer 
Jack Goldberger's office in downtown West Palm Beach, the 
Palm Beach office of a science foundation that he's established, 
and his house on El Brillo Way. 
Despite the ankle bracelet he wears, it could be argued that 
as a fabulously rich prisoner with two of his own jets parked 
nearby, at the Palm Beach International Airport, Epstein might 
have posed a flight risk. 
Instead, every day of the week save one, he's allowed to go to 
his lawyer's, to go to his office, or simply to go home. 
Did the deputy in charge of Epstein go to the house on El 
Brillo Way? 
Ric Bradshaw considers the question. 
"Yes," he says, "he did." . 
Did the deputy go inside the house? 
"Yes, he did." 
If so, the deputy might have encountered Nadia Marcinkova, 
who was staying on El Brillo Way at the time. He may also have 
202 
Eli 
met a suave short-haired gei 
French accent. 
That would be Jean-Luc E 
For the duration of Jeffre 
the Stockade, Brunel's taken 
Brillo Way. 
'ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ure the general population is not 
1. 
that Epstein is a sex offender 
of his alleged crimes, Bradshaw's 
riction was for a "low-level felony." 
ttorneys —a request that is con-
pstein is quickly granted "work 
is that six days a week, for up to 
ch day, Epstein is allowed to leave 
a designated driver in a car ear-
any one of three places: his lawyer 
lowntown West Palm Beach, the 
e foundation that he's established, 
.y. 
t he wears, it could be argued that 
with two of his own jets parked 
.ternational Airport, Epstein might 
week save one, he's allowed to go to 
e, or simply to go home. 
e of Epstein go to the house on El 
he question. 
the house? 
ave encountered Nadia Marcinkova, 
) Way at the time. He may also have 
202 
met a suave short-haired gentleman who spoke with a distinct 
French accent. 
That would be Jean-Luc Brunel. 
For the duration of Jeffrey Epstein's stay— or half stay—in 
the Stockade, Brunel's taken up residence in the house on El 
Brillo Way. 
203 
FT 
fraudster named Arnold Pr 
had been commuted by Bill 
left office. 
Sheriff Bradshaw wants 
conjugal. 
But even US attorney Aco: 
agreement with the governmi 
ment was highly irregular. 
"Epstein appears to have 
while in jail," Acosta would 
eral public. "Although the tel 
are a matter appropriately lei 
eral authorities, without dm 
while in state custody underrr 
And, of course, Epstein's: 
by taxpayers. 
CHAPTER 54 
Jeffrey Epstein: June 30, 2008—July 21, 2009 
ccording to Sheriff Ric Bradshaw, the treatment Jeffrey 
Epstein received in the Stockade was not preferential. By 
some measures, he isn't wrong. 
In 2010, millionaire polo mogul John Goodman killed a 
young man while driving drunk. He was convicted but was 
allowed to spend two years under house arrest while his appeal 
was being tried. 
Like Epstein, Goodman was allowed visitors. But Goodman's 
visitor list was nothing like Jeffrey Epstein's. 
Nadia Marcinkova is said to have visited Epstein in jail more 
than seventy times. 
Epstein's assistant Sarah Kellen also visited Epstein in the 
Stockade. 
A Russian mixed martial artist named Igor "Houdini" Zinoviev was another visitor, as was a disbarred lawyer and financial 
204 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 54 
W08-July 21, 2009 
Lc Bradshaw, the treatment Jeffrey 
e Stockade was not preferential. By 
't wrong. 
o mogul John Goodman killed a 
lrunk. He was convicted but Was 
inder house arrest while his appeal 
vas allowed visitors. But Goodman's 
seffrey Epstein's. 
to have visited Epstein in jail more 
Kellen also visited Epstein in the 
11 artist named Igor "Houdini" Zino 
-
was a disbarred lawyer and financial 
204 
fraudster named Arnold Prosperi, whose own prison sentence 
had been commuted by Bill Clinton on the day before Clinton 
left office. 
Sheriff Bradshaw wants to be clear: none of these visits was 
conjugal. 
But even US attorney Acosta, who negotiated Epstein's unusual 
agreement with the government, would say that Epstein's arrange-
ment was highly irregular. 
"Epstein appears to have received highly unusual treatment 
while in jail," Acosta would say in a letter addressed to the gen-
eral public. "Although the terms of confinement in a state prison 
are a matter appropriately left to the state of Florida and not fed-
eral authorities, without doubt, the treatment that he received 
while in state custody undermined the purpose of a jail sentence." 
And, of course, Epstein's stay at the Stockade was subsidized 
by taxpayers. 
205 
CHAPTER SS 
R. Alexander Acosta's letter to the general public, 
March 20, 2011 
To whom it may concern: 
I served as U. S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida 
from 2005 through 2009. Over the past weeks, I have read 
much regarding Mr. Jeffrey Epstein. Some appears true, 
some appears distorted. I thought it appropriate to provide 
some background, with two caveats: (i) under Justice Depart-
ment guidelines, I cannot discuss privileged internal com-
munications among department attorneys and (ii) I no longer 
have access to the original documents, and as the matter is 
now nearly 4 years old, the precision of memory is reduced. 
The Epstein matter was originally presented to the 
Palm Beach County State Attorney. Palm Beach Police 
alleged that Epstein unlawfully hired underage high 
206 
Fi 
school females to provic 
massages. Police sought 
resulted in a term of im 
reports, however, in 200 
to concerns regarding the 
to charge Epstein only 
assault with no intent tc 
would have resulted in 
register as a sexual offei 
underage victims. 
Local police were di! 
ney's conclusions, and re. 
Federal authorities recei 
engaged in additional inv( 
the quality of the evidence 
at trial. With a federal ci 
considerations. First, a 
requires that the crime b€ 
an interstate nexus. Seco] 
charged by the state, the fe 
extent, to back-stop state 
is no miscarriage of justice 
erally that which has alre 
level. 
After considering the q 
additional considerations, 
the state charge was insufi 
the prosecutors and age 
Mr. Epstein's attorney, Ro 
best known for his sue 
CHAPTER SS 
fl, 
to the general public, 
r the Southern District of Florida 
)ver the past weeks, I have read 
Epstein. Some appears true, 
Ihought it appropriate to provide 
) caveats: (i) under Justice Depart-
discuss privileged internal com-
.ment attorneys and (ii) I no longer 
I documents, and as the matter is 
precision of memory is reduced. 
was originally presented to the 
.te Attorney. Palm Beach Police 
'lawfully hired underage high-
206 
FILTHY RICH 
school females to provide him sexually lewd and erotic 
massages. Police sought felony charges that would have 
resulted in a term of imprisonment. According to press 
reports, however, in 2006 the State Attorney, in part due 
to concerns regarding the quality of the evidence, agreed 
to charge Epstein only with one count of aggravated 
assault with no intent to commit a felony. That charge 
would have resulted in no jail time, no requirement to 
register as a sexual offender and no restitution for the 
underage victims. 
Local police were dissatisfied with the State Attor-
ney's conclusions, and requested a federal investigation. 
Federal authorities received the State's evidence and 
engaged in additional investigation. Prosecutors weighed 
the quality of the evidence and the likelihood for success 
at trial. With a federal case, there were two additional 
considerations. First, a federal criminal prosecution 
requires that the crime be more than local; it must have 
an interstate nexus. Second, as the matter was initially 
charged by the state, the federal responsibility is, to some 
extent, to back-stop state authorities to ensure that there 
is no miscarriage of justice, and not to also prosecute fed-
erally that which has already been charged at the state 
level. 
After considering the quality of the evidence and the 
additional considerations, prosecutors concluded that 
the state charge was insufficient. In early summer 2007, 
the prosecutors and agents in this case met with 
Mr. Epstein's attorney, Roy Black. Mr. Black is perhaps 
best known for his successful defense of William 
207 
JAMES PATTERSON 
FI1 
Kennedy Smith. The prosecutors presented Epstein a 
choice: plead to more serious state felony charges (that 
would result in 2 years' imprisonment, registration as a 
sexual offender, and restitution for the victims) or else 
prepare for a federal felony trial. 
What followed was a year-long assault on the prose-
cution and the prosecutors. I use the word assault inten-
tionally, as the defense in this case was more aggressive 
than any which I, or the prosecutors in my office, had 
previously encountered. Mr. Epstein hired an army of 
legal superstars: Harvard Professor Alan Dershowitz, for-
mer Judge and then Pepperdine Law Dean Kenneth Starr, 
former Deputy Assistant to the President and then Kirk-
land & Ellis Partner Jay Lefkowitz, and several others, 
including prosecutors who had formerly worked in the 
U.S. Attorney's Office and in the Child Exploitation and 
Obscenity Section of the Justice Department. Defense 
attorneys next requested a meeting with me to challenge 
the prosecution and the terms previously presented by 
the prosecutors in their meeting with Mr. Black. The 
prosecution team and I met with defense counsel in Fall 
2007, and I reaffirmed the office's position: two years, 
registration and restitution, or trial. 
Over the next several months, the defense team pre-
sented argument after argument claiming that felony 
criminal proceedings against Epstein were unsupported 
by the evidence and lacked a basis in law, and that the 
office's insistence on jail-time was motivated by a zeal to 
overcharge a man merely because he is wealthy. They 
bolstered their arguments with legal opinions from 
208 
well-known legal expert 
team warned me that thE 
good man to serve time• 
book if we continued tc 
office systematically con! 
ment, and when we di 
appealed to Washington.. 
The defense strategy 
Defense counsel investiga 
their families, looking for 
provide a basis for disqual 
ecutor is an effective (th. 
eliminating the individua 
and thus most qualified to 
lihood for success. Defens. 
least two prosecutors. I 
rejected, these arguments. 
Despite the army of att 
the terms first presented 
meeting. On June 30, 2008 
appeal to Washington D.( 
guilty in state court. He Av 
onment, register as a sexua 
restitution to the victims. 
Some may feel that the] 
tougher. Evidence that has 
encourage that view. Mary; 
out, filing detailed statemen 
ages. Physical evidence has 
these additional statements 
2, 
kTTERSON 
.cutors presented Epstein a 
,us state felony charges (that 
prisonment, registration as a 
ition for the victims) or else 
trial. 
ar-long assault on the prose-
. I use the word assault inten-
his case was more aggressive 
3rosecutors in my office, had 
Ir. Epstein hired an army of 
rofessor Alan Dershowitz, for-
dine Law Dean Kenneth Starr, 
) the President and then Kirk-
_efkowitz, and several others, 
3 had formerly worked in the 
in the Child Exploitation and 
Justice Department. Defense 
meeting with me to challenge 
terms previously presented by 
meeting with Mr. Black. The 
.et with defense counsel in Fall 
ae office's position: two years, 
n, or trial. 
months, the defense team pre-
.rgument claiming that felony 
tinst Epstein were unsupported 
:ed a basis in law, and that the 
time was motivated by a zeal to 
.y because he is wealthy. They 
nts with legal opinions from 
208 
FILTHY RICH 
well-known legal experts. One member of the defense 
team warned me that the office's excess zeal in forcing a 
good man to serve time in jail might be the subject of a 
book if we continued to proceed with the matter. My 
office systematically considered and rejected each argu-
ment, and when we did, my office's decisions were 
appealed to Washington. As to the warning, I ignored it. 
The defense strategy was not limited to legal issues. 
Defense counsel investigated individual prosecutors and 
their families, looking for personal peccadilloes that may 
provide a basis for disqualification. Disqualifying a pros-
ecutor is an effective (though rarely used) strategy, as 
eliminating the individuals most familiar with the facts 
and thus most qualified to take a case to trial harms like-
lihood for success. Defense counsel tried to disqualify at 
least two prosecutors. I carefully reviewed, and then 
rejected, these arguments. 
Despite the army of attorneys, the office held firm to 
the terms first presented to Mr. Black in the original 
meeting. On June 30, 2008, after yet another last minute 
appeal to Washington D.C. was rejected, Epstein pled 
guilty in state court. He was to serve 18 months impris-
onment, register as a sexual offender for life, and provide 
restitution to the victims. 
Some may feel that the prosecution should have been 
tougher. Evidence that has come to light since 2007 may 
encourage that view. Many victims have since spoken 
out, filing detailed statements in civil cases seeking dam-
ages. Physical evidence has since been discovered. Had 
these additional statements and evidence been known, 
209 
JAMES PATTERSON 
the outcome may have been different. But they were not 
known to us at the time. 
A prosecution decision must be based on admissible 
facts known at the time. In cases of this type, those are 
unusually difficult because victims are frightened and 
often decline to testify or if they do speak, they give con-
tradictory statements. Our judgment in this case, based 
on the evidence known at the time, was that it was better 
to have a billionaire serve time in jail, register as a sex 
offender, and pay his victims restitution than risk a trial 
with a reduced likelihood of success. I supported that 
judgment then, and based on the state law as it then stood 
and the evidence known at the time, I would support that 
judgment again. 
Epstein's treatment, while in state custody, likewise 
may encourage the view that the office should have been 
tougher. Although the terms of confinement in a state 
prison are a matter appropriately left to the State of Flor-
ida, and not federal authorities, without doubt, the treat-
ment that he received while in state custody undermined 
the purpose of a jail sentence. 
Some may also believe that the prosecution should 
have been tougher in retaliation for the defense's tactics. 
The defense, arguably, often failed to negotiate in good 
faith. They would obtain concessions as part of a negotia-
tion and agree to proceed, only to change their minds, 
and appeal the office's position to Washington. The inves-
tigations into the family lives of individual prosecutors 
were, in my opinion, uncalled for, as were the accusations 
of bias and/or misconduct against individual prosecutors. 
210 
F. 
At times, some prosecut 
trial, and at times I felt t 
right in the first meetin 
spective of defense tacti 
tional right to a defense 
right should not be puni: 
sel's exercise of their ri 
Washington D.C. Proseci 
frustration and anger wi 
their judgment. 
After the plea, I reca 
One was from the FBI Sp( 
to offer congratulations. 
meetings regarding this c 
of the defense, and he cat 
holding firm against the 1 
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. 
received calls or commun 
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I 
als previously, from my 
Kirkland & Ellis in the m 
peace. I agreed to talk am 
Epstein pled guilty, as I 
tors battle defense attorne 
have tried, yet I confess ti: 
fully in this case. 
The bottom line is this:• 
served time in jail and is m 
He has been required to pa) 
restitution clearly cannot c 
)ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
n different. But they were not 
must be based on admissible 
-1 cases of this type, those are 
e victims are frightened and 
they do speak, they give con-
• judgment in this case, based 
[he time, was that it was better 
time in jail, register as a sex 
ms restitution than risk a trial 
I of success. I supported that 
on the state law as it then stood 
the time, I would support that 
•hue in state custody, likewise 
hat the office should have been 
rms of confinement in a state 
Driately left to the State of Flor-
rities, without doubt, the treat-
le in state custody undermined 
nce. 
Te that the prosecution should 
illation for the defense's tactics. 
ten failed to negotiate in good 
zoncessions as part of a negotia-
d, only to change their minds, 
;Won to Washington. The inves-
lives of individual prosecutors 
filed for, as were the accusations . 
t against individual prosecutors. 
2.10 
At times, some prosecutors felt that we should just go to 
trial, and at times I felt that frustration myself. What was 
right in the first meeting, however, remained right irre-
spective of defense tactics. Individuals have a constitu-
tional right to a defense. The aggressive exercise of that 
right should not be punished, nor should a defense coun-
sel's exercise of their right to appeal a U.S Attorney to 
Washington D.C. Prosecutors must be careful not to allow 
frustration and anger with defense counsel to influence 
their judgment. 
After the plea, I recall receiving several phone calls. 
One was from the FBI Special Agent-In-Charge. He called 
to offer congratulations. He had been at many of the 
meetings regarding this case. He was aware of the tactics 
of the defense, and he called to praise our prosecutors for 
holding firm against the likes of Messrs. Black, Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. It was a proud moment. I also 
received calls or communications from Messrs. Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I had known all three individu-
als previously, from my time in law school and at 
Kirkland & Ellis in the mid 90s. They all sought to make 
peace. I agreed to talk and meet with each of them after 
Epstein pled guilty, as I think it important that prosecu-
tors battle defense attorneys in a case and then move on. I 
have tried, yet I confess that this has been difficult to do 
fully in this case. 
The bottom line is this: Mr. Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire, 
served time in jail and is now a registered sexual offender. 
He has been required to pay his victims restitution, though 
restitution clearly cannot compensate for the crime. And 
211 
JAMES PATTERSON 
we know much more today about his crimes because vic-
tims have come forward to speak out. Some may disagree 
with prosecutorial judgments made in this case, but 
those individuals are not the ones who at the time 
reviewed the evidence available for trial and assessed the 
likelihood of success. 
Respectfully, 
R. Alexander Acosta 
Former U.S. Attorney 
Southern District of Florida 
212 
PATTERSON 
y about his crimes because vic-
) speak out. Some may disagree 
nents made in this case, but 
)t the ones who at the time 
iilable for trial and assessed the 
• Respectfully, 
R. Alexander Acosta 
Former U.S. Attorney 
Southern District of Florida 
PART VI 
Aftermath 
CHAPTER 56 
Jeffrey Epstein: July 2009 
effrey Epstein walks out of the Stockade on July 21, 2009, 
having served less than thirteen months of his eighteen-month 
sentence. One of the concessions his lawyers have gotten 
while working out his plea-deal guarantees is that the media not 
be alerted to the time and day of his departure. 
But from now on, Epstein, who is fifty-six, will carry the 
mark of a level 3 sex offender—level 1 being the lowest, and 
level 3 indicating the highest possible risk of a future criminal 
act of a sexual nature. Wherever he goes, he will be forced to reg-
ister as such. 
Every ninety days, Epstein will have to check in with the 
authorities. Every year, the New York City Police Department 
will take his mug shot. And for a full year, Epstein will be under 
house arrest in Palm Beach. 
This last prohibition doesn't stop him from flying, with court 
215 
JAMES PATTERSON 
approval, on his own planes to New York and to Little Saint Jeff's, 
where the locals have taken to referring to Epstein's 727 as the 
Lolita Express. 
There are other restrictions, of course, that Epstein is sup-
posed to abide by. He has to provide the state of Florida with a 
list of all the motor vehicles, boats, and airplanes he owns. The 
full list includes two Escalades, six Suburbans, two Ford F-150s, 
two Harley-Davidsons, a Land Rover, a Hummer H2, a thirty-
four-foot JVC boat, and a thirty-five-foot Donzi powerboat. 
Three of his five planes turn out to be registered to a com-
pany called Air Ghislaine, Inc. 
As a registered sex offender, Epstein is legally obliged to 
undergo psychiatric treatment. This is a restriction he'll get 
around by having his own psychologist submit a report to law 
enforcement officers. 
Epstein is also prohibited from accessing pornography on 
the Internet and using social networking for sexual purposes. 
For Jeffrey Epstein, there will be no Bangbros, Tinder, or 
Swingles. com. 
There will be lawsuits. 
Six weeks before probation ends, he settles with seven women 
who sue him in civil court. But Epstein can easily afford the set-
tlement payments. He won't be going back to jail, and in regard 
to further prosecution for any criminal actions, his troubles are 
behind him. 
Not everyone who's spent time in his company will be so 
lucky. 
216 
Alfredo Rodriguez: Aug 
E pstein's houseman, Al 
prison sentence. 
In a sworn statem 
maid, Lupita, who had corni 
up after Epstein's "massagec 
lic, had cried as she describe 
Rodriguez was fired by I 
after seeing a strange car--
As it turned out, the ca 
masseuses. 
On his way out of the hc 
i, of Epstein's papers, which he 
by Chief Reiter's investigator. 
For years, Rodriguez trio 
manager. No one wanted tc 
TTERSON 
Few York and to Little Saint Jeff's, 
referring to Epstein's 727 as the 
, of course, that Epstein is sup-
ovide the state of Florida with a 
)ats, and airplanes he owns. The 
six Suburbans, two Ford F-150s, 
Rover, a Hummer H2, a thirty-
Eive-foot Donzi powerboat. 
.n out to be registered to a corn-
er, Epstein is legally obliged to 
t. This is a restriction he'll get 
Tchologist submit a report to law 
from accessing pornography on 
etworking for sexual purposes. 
will be no Bangbros, Tinder, or 
ends, he settles with seven women 
t Epstein can easily afford the set-
e going back to jail, and in regard 
criminal actions, his troubles are 
time in his company will be so 
216 
CHAPTER 57 
Alfredo Rodriguez: August 2009 
Epstein's houseman, Alfredo Rodriguez, also ends up with a 
prison sentence. 
In a sworn statement, Rodriguez talks about Epstein's 
maid, Lupita, who had complained to him about having to clean 
up after Epstein's "massages." Lupita, who was a devout Catho-
lic, had cried as she described the stained towel and sex toys. 
Rodriguez was fired by Epstein, he says, when he called 911 
after seeing a strange car— a "beater" —in Epstein's driveway. 
As it turned out, the car had belonged to one of Epstein's 
masseuses. 
On his way out of the house on El Brillo Way, he took some 
of Epstein's papers, which he failed to produce when questioned 
by Chief Reiter's investigators. 
For years, Rodriguez tried and failed to find work as a house 
manager. No one wanted to hire someone who'd worked for 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Fr u 
Jeffrey Epstein. Finally, desperately, he tried to sell the informa-
tion he'd stolen. 
The papers named underage girls and the places where 
Epstein had taken them. The list included locations in Califor-
nia, Paris, New Mexico, New York, and Michigan. The papers 
also included the names, addresses, and phone numbers of 
famous individuals—Henry Kissinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
man, Ralph Fiennes, David Koch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump, 
Bill Richardson, Bill Clinton, and former Israeli prime minister 
Ehud Barak among them. 
This was intriguing, if not at all damning. Epstein made a 
habit of collecting such information for future use. But informa-
tion pertaining to the girls would have bolstered the state's case 
against Jeffrey Epstein, and by withholding it from the Palm 
Beach PD and the FBI, Rodriguez had committed a crime. 
In his defense, Rodriguez would say that the papers were an 
"insurance policy." Without them, he believed, Epstein would 
have made him "disappear." 
But now Rodriguez needed the money. And so a few weeks 
after Epstein's release from the Stockade, he approached a lawyer 
who was representing some of Epstein's masseuses. He had the 
"holy grail," he insisted. A ."golden nugget." The names of hun-
dreds of girls, he said, who had been abused by Epstein. 
The lawyer told Rodriguez in no uncertain terms that he was 
obliged to turn whatever he had over to the authorities. By 
demanding money for the information, Rodriguez was commit-
ting another crime. 
According to a sworn statement by Christina Pryor, a special, 
agent with the FBI, Rodriguez "persisted that he would only turn 
over the information in his possession in exchange for $50,000." 
218 
Two months later, on Octobe. 
who insisted once more on 13( 
lawyer told him that an associ 
What the lawyer knew one 
the associate in question was. 
the FBI. A few days later, on? 
guez and sets up a meeting, wl 
"During the meeting, Roc 
book and several sheets of legs 
ten notes," Special Agent Pryo 
continues: 
Rodriguez explained that he 
his former employer's resid 
2004 to 2005 and that the bo 
working for his former emp 
detail the information within 
ant information to the UCE. I; 
he had previously lied to the. 
about the $50,000, took posse 
counting it. 
Rodriguez was then detat 
Proceedings, Title 18, U.S. Co 
tioned. After Miranda warning 
Rodriguez waived his rights a 
those rights. Rodriguez admiti 
and book in his possession am 
to local law enforcement or th 
21 
PATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
-ately, he tried to sell the informa-
rage girls and the places where 
list included locations in Califor-
• York, and Michigan. The papers 
ldresses, and phone numbers of 
:issinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
Dch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump, 
and former Israeli prime minister 
A at all damning. Epstein made a 
nation for future use. But informa-
mild have bolstered the state's case 
by withholding it from the Palm 
;uez had committed a crime. 
would say that the papers were an 
them, he believed, Epstein would 
ed the money. And so a few weeks 
Le Stockade, he approached a lawyer 
of Epstein's masseuses. He had the 
golden nugget." The names of hun-
ad been abused by Epstein. 
:z in no uncertain terms that he was 
Le had over to the authorities. By 
formation, Rodriguez was commit
tement by Christina Pryor, a special 
:z "persisted that he would only turn 
ossession in exchange for $50,000." 
218 
* * * 
Two months later, on October 28, the lawyer called Rodriguez, 
who insisted once more on being paid for the information. The 
lawyer told him that an associate would be in touch. 
What the lawyer knew and Rodriguez did not know was that 
the associate in question was an undercover employee (UCE) of 
the FBI. A few days later, on November 2, the UCE calls Rodri-
guez and sets up a meeting, which takes place the following day. 
"During the meeting, Rodriguez produced a small bound 
book and several sheets of legal pad paper containing handwrit-
ten notes," Special Agent Pryor would say in her statement. She 
continues: 
Rodriguez explained that he had taken the bound book from 
his former employer's residence while employed there in 
2004 to 2005 and that the book had been created by persons 
working for his former employer. Rodriguez discussed in 
detail the information within the book and identified import-
ant information to the UCE. In addition, Rodriguez admitted 
he had previously lied to the FBI. Rodriguez asked the UCE 
about the $50,000, took possession of the money, and began 
counting it. 
Rodriguez was then detained for Obstruction of Official 
Proceedings, Title 18, US. Code, Section 1512(c), and ques-
tioned. After Miranda warnings were administered by agents, 
Rodriguez waived his rights and signed a written waiver of 
those rights. Rodriguez admitted that he had the documents 
and book in his possession and had never turned them over 
to local law enforcement or the FBI. In addition, Rodriguez 
219 
JAMES PATTERSON 
advised he had witnessed nude girls whom he believed were 
underage at the pool area of his former employer's home, 
knew that his former employer was engaging in sexual con-
tact with underage girls, and had viewed pornographic 
images of underage girls on computers in his employer's 
home. Rodriguez was then released from custody for further 
investigation. 
The items that Rodriguez had attempted to sell to the 
UCE for $50,000.00 were reviewed by an agent familiar with 
the underlying criminal investigation. As Rodriguez had 
described, the items contained information material to the 
underlying investigation that would have been extremely use-
ful in investigatang] and prosecuting the case, including the 
names and contact information of material witnesses and 
additional victims. Had those items been produced in 
response to the inquiries of the state law enforcement officers 
or the FBI Special Agents, their contents would have been 
presented to the federal grand jury. 
Following his release, Alfredo Rodriguez was arrested again. 
He appeared in court on June 1.8, 2010, facing charges of cor-
ruptly concealing records and documents. Dressed in a blue 
jumpsuit and shackles, he apologized for his crimes and asked 
the court to be merciful. 
He received a sentence of eighteen months. 
It was the same punishment that Jeffrey Epstein had gotten 
for his crimes. But unlike Epstein, Alfredo Rodriguez served his 
time in a federal prison and did not ask for, or receive, permis-
sion to go on work release. 
220 
Prince Andrew: 2011 
p rince Andrew also fares 
imprisonment. 
The two men are old I 
Ghislaine Maxwell introducedi 
time in the 1990s. In 2000, Ep5 
Castle to celebrate the queen's h 
flew to Sandringham, the queei 
a party Prince Andrew threw for 
The prince had also visited 
Palm Beach as well as in New 
Roberts made in her 2015 decla 
asked her to give the prince wi 
back with the details. 
According to the Guardian, 
tied together at Windsor Castle, 
2; 
'ATTERSON 
de girls whom he believed were 
If his former employer's home, 
,er was engaging in sexual con-
lnd had viewed pornographic 
n computers in his employer's 
_4eased from custody for further 
ez had attempted to sell to the 
viewed by an agent familiar with 
.vestigation. As Rodriguez had 
led information material to the 
t would have been extremely use-
-osecuting the case, including the 
ltion of material witnesses and 
those items been produced in 
he state law enforcement officers 
their contents would have been 
rid jury. 
redo Rodriguez was arrested again. 
le 18, 2010, facing charges of cor-
nd documents. Dressed in a blue 
)ologized for his crimes and asked 
eighteen months. 
lent that Jeffrey Epstein had gotten 
istein, Alfredo Rodriguez served his 
did not ask for, or receive, permis-
220 
CHAPTER 58 
Prince Andrew: 2011 
p rince Andrew also fares poorly in the wake of Epstein's 
imprisonment. 
The two men are old friends. They have been ever since 
Ghislaine Maxwell introduced the prince to her then-beau, some-
time in the 1990s. In 2000, Epstein had been invited to Windsor 
Castle to celebrate the queen's birthday. Six months later, Epstein 
flew to Sandringham, the queen's estate in Norfolk, England, for 
a party Prince Andrew threw for Ghislaine's thirty-ninth birthday. 
The prince had also visited Epstein on several occasions, in 
Palm Beach as well as in New York. And if allegations Virginia 
Roberts made in her 2015 declaration are to be believed, Epstein 
asked her to give the prince whatever he required, then report 
back with the details. 
According to the Guardian, Epstein and the prince had par-
tied together at Windsor Castle, in Saint-Tropez, and in Thailand, 
221 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Fi L 
where "Andrew was pictured on a yacht surrounded by topless 
women." 
According to Roberts's lawsuit, Epstein had forced her into 
the prince's bed on Little Saint Jeff's. 
After Epstein's conviction, the British press were using another 
name for Little Saint Jeff's: Sex Island. The Guardian reported 
that the manager of two Virgin Islands—based corporations owned 
by Epstein happened to be the wife of the governor of the Virgin 
Islands. There were allegations involving a million-dollar dona-
tion that Epstein had made to the governor's reelection cam-
paign. And then there was Roberts's claim that she had been 
forced to have sex with the prince on the island as well as in 
New York and in London. 
Invariably, the photograph of Prince Andrew with his arm 
around the bare midriff of a very young-looking Virginia Rob-
erts ran with stories that appeared in the tabloids. 
"It is emphatically denied that the Duke of York had any form 
of sexual contact or relationship" with Roberts, Buckingham 
Palace spokespersons would say. "The allegations made are false 
and without any foundation." 
The prince's ex-wife, Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York, 
while on a skiing trip with the prince and their daughter Euge-
nie in Switzerland, told reporters, "He is the greatest man there 
is. It was the finest moment of my life in 1986 when I married 
him. He is a great man, the best in the world." 
"I won't stand by—because I know what it feels like to have 
salacious lies made up about you—and not support him so pub-
licly because they are just shockingly accusatory allegations, 
222 
which I don't think is right," .5 
viewed by Today host Matt La 
and as a great father and a h-
work he does for Britain I w( 
character defamed to this leve 
But at the same time, a c( 
good man's fall from grace, a 
out of the woodwork to dish t( 
"I've seen him treat his st 
said a former aide to the princ( 
personal protection officers, 
ground and demanding they ' 
graces at all. Sure, if you're a la 
then I bet he's utterly charminl 
Despite all this, the prince had 
a photo, frequently trotted out l 
strolling in Central Park. 
Some few months before it 
businessman had secretly tap( 
five hundred thousand pounds 
"If you want to meet him ir 
"look after me, and he'll look aft 
"Once again," she said aft 
Pounded and rebounded and als 
most in the world: the Duke." 
Prince Andrew had had hi5 
real estate deals, sticky roman. 
ment dumps (courtesy of Julia' 
2. 
1/4TTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
n a yacht surrounded by topless 
mit, Epstein had forced her into 
eff's. 
British press were using another 
x Island. The Guardian reported 
slands—based corporations owned 
wife of the governor of the Virgin 
; involving a million-dollar dona-
o the governor's reelection cam-
Dberts's claim that she had been 
rince on the island as well as in 
of Prince Andrew with his arm 
very young-looking Virginia Rob-
ired in the tabloids. 
hat the Duke of York had any form 
ship" with Roberts, Buckingham 
ay. "The allegations made are false 
h Ferguson, the Duchess of York, 
e prince and their daughter Euge-
ters, "He is the greatest man there 
)f my life in 1986 when I married 
st in the world." 
se I know what it feels like to have 
70U-and not support him so pub-
thockingly accusatory allegations, 
222 
which I don't think is right," she said a few days later when inter-
viewed by Today host Matt Lauer. "It's a defamation of character, 
and as a great father and a humongously good man and all the 
work he does for Britain I won't stand by and let him have his 
character defamed to this level." 
But at the same time, a certain schadenfreude attended the 
good man's fall from grace, and former associates kept coming 
out of the woodwork to dish to the press. 
"I've seen him treat his staff in a shocking, appalling way," 
said a former aide to the prince. "He's been incredibly rude to his 
personal protection officers, literally throwing things on the 
ground and demanding they 'fucking pick them up.' No social 
graces at all. Sure, if you're a lady with blond hair and big boobs, 
then I bet he's utterly charming." 
Despite all this, the prince had stuck by Epstein. There was even 
a photo, frequently trotted out by the tabloids, of the two of them 
strolling in Central Park. 
Some few months before it was taken, a reporter posing as a 
businessman had secretly taped Sarah Ferguson's demand for 
five hundred thousand pounds in return for access to the prince. 
"If you want to meet him in your business," she'd said then, 
"look after me, and he'll look after you. You'll get it back tenfold." 
"Once again," she said afterward, "my errors have com-
pounded and rebounded and also impacted on the man I admire 
inost in the world: the Duke." 
Prince Andrew had had his troubles already—with shady 
real estate deals, sticky romances, highly embarrassing docu-
ment dumps (courtesy of Julian Assange and WikiLeaks), and 
223 
JAMES PATTERSON 
i*t 
questionable ties to Tunisian oligarchs, corrupt presidents of 
former Soviet republics, and Mu'ammar Gadhafi, among other 
entanglements, many of which were explored in a Vanity Fair 
article headlined THE TROUBLE WITH ANDREW. 
"The duke has a record of being loyal to his friends," a "royal 
source" told Vanity Fair's Edward Klein. "Take his feelings for 
Sarah Ferguson. If you are a prince and you bring a woman into 
the royal life and, for whatever reasons, she's spit out, you might 
have feelings of debt toward her. The duke feels that she's been 
spattered and rejected. His close relationship with the Duchess 
of York is problematic, and there have been many problems over 
the last 5 to 10 years, all of which stem from the duchess. Some 
of the behavior of the duchess is inconsistent with being mar-
ried to, or an ex-wife of, the duke. There's no question but that 
Sarah's been a financially self-destructive element in the• duke's 
life." 
"The same kind of loyalty manifested itself last December, 
when the duke visited Epstein at his home in New York," said a 
spokesperson for Buckingham Palace. "Epstein was a friend of 
the duke's for the best part of 20 years. It was the first time in 
four years that he'd seen Epstein. He now recognizes that the 
meeting in December was unwise." 
"Don't expect to see a photo of the two of them together," 4. 
another "royal source" would say. 
But one more story about the prince's dealings with Jeffrey 
Epstein had already emerged. 
At a dinner party at Epstein's town house, the prince dished 
about the wedding of his nephew Prince William to Kate 
Middleton. 
"He was amused that his dinner companions were so inter 
224 
ested in every detail," a g 
gossip columnist. "Whe 
Queen wear, would his e; 
Other guests in atten( 
dler, George Stephanopo 
Woody Allen. 
At around the same t 
Post, "I'm not a sexual pi 
ence between a murderer 
Was it so remarkable that 
in Epstein's company? Ar 
fodder for years. Randy A 
the circles that Jeffrey E 
seen as a vice. Epstein cal 
lation took hold on Wall 
were charging ten thousal 
you'd see things that woi 
that would make Nero hi 
guisher. When the urge 
didn't have to swap wives. 
They could simply swe 
By the same token, wa: 
like the prince would ha. 
insofar as reality is even a 
odd that he thought it wa5 
raphers strolling through 
offender—when at the tin 
ing, and trading industri 
LTTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
pligarchs, corrupt presidents of 
Eu'ammar Gadhafi, among other 
were explored in a Vanity Fair 
TH ANDREW. 
eing loyal to his friends," a "royal 
ard Klein. "Take his feelings for 
ince and you bring a woman into 
reasons, she's spit out, you might 
er. The duke feels that she's been 
se relationship with the Duchess 
re have been many problems over 
tich stem from the duchess. Some 
s is inconsistent with being mar-
Luke. There's no question but that 
-destructive element in the .duke's 
r manifested itself last December, 
1. at his home in New York," said a 
n Palace. "Epstein was a friend of 
f 20 years. It was the first time in 
;tein. He now recognizes that the 
Arise." 
Low of the two of them together," 
say. 
t the prince's dealings with Jeffrey 
town house, the prince dish 
nephew Prince William to Ka 
; dinner companions were so in 
224 
ested in every detail," a guest in attendance told a New York Post 
gossip columnist. "What would Kate wear, what would the 
Queen wear, would his ex-wife Sarah Ferguson be invited?" 
Other guests in attendance that night included Chelsea Han-
dler, George Stephanopoulos,. Charlie Rose, Katie Couric, and 
Woody Allen. 
At around the same time, Jeffrey Epstein told the New York 
Post, "I'm not a sexual predator, I'm an 'offender.' It's the differ-
ence between a murderer and a person who steals a bagel." 
Was it so remarkable that Prince Andrew would have been seen 
in Epstein's company? Andrew's philandering had been tabloid 
fodder for years. Randy Andy, they called him in the UK. And in 
the circles that Jeffrey Epstein moved in, philandering wasn't 
seen as a vice. Epstein came of age just as industrywide deregu-
lation took hold on Wall Street. Junk bonds were king. Call girls 
were charging ten thousand dollars a night. And in the shadows, 
you'd see things that would have made Caligula blush. Sights 
that would make Nero himself reach for the nearest fire extin-
guisher. When the urge presented itself, the new super rich 
didn't have to swap wives. 
They could simply swap harems. 
By the same token, was it so very strange to think that a man 
like the prince would have grown so detached from reality—
insofar as reality is even a word that applies to a prince? Was it 
odd that he thought it was absolutely fine to be seen by photog-
raphers strolling through Central Park with a registered sex 
offender— when at the time large swaths of the financial, bank-
ing, and trading industries were characterized by their very 
225 
JAMES PATTERSON 
detachment from day-to-day concerns such as morality, ethics, 
and appearances? 
As for Jeffrey Epstein, one question that might be worth ask-
ing is, if he's in fact a narcissist and megalomaniac, could he 
actually believe that he's innocent? Then again, that might be the 
wrong question. Epstein did plead guilty, after all. But what if he 
simply doesn't see what he pleaded to as a crime? What if he's 
proud of his lifestyle? And if that's the case, why wouldn't Prince 
Andrew be proud to be seen in public with his dear friend Jeffrey 
Epstein? 
What if, for people like Epstein and the prince, it's just ser-
vants and masters, the way of the world? They're natural winners — 
aristocrats, after all— and if life were fair, well, how would we 
know who the real winners are? 
11 
226 
Anna Salter: Novembf 
hy do powerful 
and Prince And 
Dr. Anna Si 
sionally. Educated at Harv; 
psychology, she spoke, wit] 
Epstein and others like him 
"Consider a car," says 
are brakes. We all have se, 
be a good idea to act on. /‘ 
behavior. We have good br. 
"Sexual offenses and in. 
times the result of a bad r 
prepubescent children or e 
children as opposed to po! 
always the result of bad bra 
'ATTERSON 
oncerns such as morality, ethics, 
luestion that might be worth ask-
>ist and megalomaniac, could he 
nt? Then again, that might be the 
ead guilty, after all. But what if he 
.aded to as a crime? What if he's 
rat's the case, why wouldn't Prince 
public with his dear friend Jeffrey 
)stein and the prince, it's just ser-
e world? They're natural winners — 
lie were fair, well, how would we 
226 
CHAPTER 59 
Anna Salter: November 2015 
hy do powerful men do the things that Jeffrey Epstein 
and Prince Andrew have been accused of doing? 
Dr. Anna Salter studies child sex offenders profes-
sionally. Educated at Harvard, with a graduate degree in clinical 
psychology, she spoke, with the benefit of hindsight, about Jeffrey 
Epstein and others like him from her office in Madison, Wisconsin. 
"Consider a car," says Dr. Salter. "There's a motor, and there 
are brakes. We all have sexual impulses we don't think it would 
be a good idea to act on. Most of us have good control over our 
behavior. We have good brakes. 
"Sexual offenses and inappropriate sexual behavior are some-
times the result of a bad motor—for example, an attraction to 
Prepubescent children or eleven-to-fourteen-year-old pubescent 
children as opposed to postpubescent individuals. But they are 
always the result of bad brakes. 
227 
on young girls delude then 
will not harm the child. TI 
medicated it with thinking 
pathic and simply don't caz 
can't say anything about Ei 
but narcissism and psychop 
look at concerning anyone N4 
bescent individuals but wh 
teens. 
"Psychopaths are often 
seekers who are bored if not 
manipulate. They do not estE 
"They are callous and r( 
don't feel bad about harming 
"Rules don't apply to th 
They are sure they won't get 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"Antisocial psychopaths don't have brakes at all." 
Dr. Salter has never met Epstein, but she's followed his case 
closely and finds him a familiar type. She's especially struck by 
the singular nature of the relationship between powerful, wealthy 
men and vulnerable, underage women. 
"[The men] are more impressive to a fourteen-year-old [girl] 
than to, say, an adult young woman who is self-supporting and 
feels more sure of herself," she explains. 
"They are attracted to what they call freshness—barely bud-
ding sexuality and lack of sexual experience. The difference 
between them and their victims feeds their ego. 
"Great wealth and access are generally factors that make men 
feel they are entitled to whomever and whatever they want. Some 
have narcissistic personalities with inflated self-images. And of 
course, great wealth and status make such men think they can 
get away with it. Too often, they're right." 
On the other hand, Dr. Salter believes that certain condi-
tions, such as the ones exhibited by Jeffrey Epstein, might be an 
inborn character trait. 
Personality can be influenced, sometimes quite heavily, by 
genetics. 
"Virtually no one believes anymore that humans are born a 
totally blank slate," she explains. 
"We arrive with temperamental and personality variations 
that, of course, the environment can often, but not always, influ-
ence. We arrive with baggage." 
Is Epstein a born psychopath, then? 
"Psychopathy is the umbrella term for individuals who do not 
have a conscience. Pyschopaths are often narcissistic, but nar-
cissists are often not psychopathic. Some individuals who prey 
228 
TTERSON 
ft have brakes at all." 
stein, but she's followed his case 
r type. She's especially struck by 
mship between powerful, wealthy 
women. 
:ssive to a fourteen-year-old [girl 
oman who is self-supporting and 
explains. 
they call freshness—barely bud-
exual experience. The difference 
Is feeds their ego. 
re generally factors that make men 
.ver and whatever they want. Some 
5 with inflated self-images. And of 
us make such men think they can 
Ley're right." 
Salter believes that certain condi-
ited by Jeffrey Epstein, might be an 
nced, sometimes quite heavily, by 
anymore that humans are born a 
ains. 
•amental and personality variatio 
nent can often, but not always, i 
)path, then? 
rella term for individuals who do,_ 
paths are often narcissistic, but 
Lopathic. Some individuals who 
228 
FILTHY RICH 
on young girls delude themselves into thinking that the abuse 
will not harm the child. They have a conscience, but they have 
medicated it with thinking errors. Others are flat-out psycho-
pathic and simply don't care if it hurts the young girl or not. I 
can't say anything about Epstein, as I have not evaluated him, 
but narcissism and psychopathy are concepts an evaluator would 
look at concerning anyone who was sexually attracted to postpu-
bescent individuals but who then began to focus on younger 
teens. 
"Psychopaths are often superficially charming, high-stimulus 
seekers who are bored if not doing something. They lie, con, and 
manipulate. They do not establish deep affective ties. 
"They are callous and remorseless individuals who simply 
don't feel bad about harming someone. 
"Rules don't apply to them because they are exceptional. 
They are sure they won't get caught." 
229 
CHAPTER 60 
Jeffrey Epstein: July 2010 
I. effrey Epstein was done with jail, but he wasn't done settling 
suits brought by his victims. Under the conditions of his 
non-prosecution agreement, he's even paid for the victims' 
lawyers. Still, Epstein's NPA seemed to ensure that he would not 
be prosecuted again for his crimes. Double jeopardy was work-
ing in Epstein's favor. But in July of 2010, reports began to appear 
in the press: federal investigators were following other leads—
leads that could result in child-trafficking charges and a 
twenty-year sentence. 
The Florida attorney general's office refused to comment. It 
was against policy to confirm or deny the existence of an ongo-
ing investigation. One of Epstein's lawyers told the Daily Beast 
that he had no knowledge of such an investigation. "Jeffrey 
Epstein has fully complied with all state and federal require-,, 
ments that arise from the prior proceedings in Palm Beach," Jack 
230 
Goldberger said. "There; 
not and should not be 
Epstein's complete fulfillm 
agreement with the feder 
If there was an invest 
the moment, Epstein was 
to intellectual pursuits. 1 
Science.com, that featun 
with Jeffrey Epstein," "TI 
Jeffrey Epstein," "Why 
Epstein," and "An Under 
Jeffrey Epstein." The latt. 
Epstein takes you to the 
knowledge to explore an 
the subtle, simple, and hic 
universe." 
"Jeffrey doesn't know shit 
art collector who has know 
"Does he like to act like he 
these academic scientists—
have any money." 
Other friends of Epstei 
liant mind for science. AnC 
than sponsor individual sc 
ences on Little Saint Jeff's. 
ference called Mindshift at 
theoretical physicist Murra 
geon.s, engineers, and futi 
CHAPTER 60 
th jail, but he wasn't done settling 
ms. Under the conditions of his 
a, he's even paid for the victims' 
emed to ensure that he would not 
Imes. Double jeopardy was work-
Ely of 2010, reports began to appear 
tors were following other leads — 
child-trafficking charges and a 
raPs office refused to comment. It 
or deny the existence of an ongo-
stein's lawyers told the Daily Beast 
of such an investigation. "Jeffrey 
with all state and federal require 
-
or proceedings in Palm Beach," Jack 
230 
FILTHY RICH 
Goldberger said. "There are no pending civil lawsuits. There are 
not and should not be any pending investigations, given Mr. 
Epstein's complete fulfillment of all the terms of his non-prosecution 
agreement with the federal government." 
If there was an investigation, nothing had come of it yet. For 
the moment, Epstein was free— free to turn his attention, again, 
to intellectual pursuits. He launched a website, JeffreyEpstein-
Science.com, that featured blog posts such as "Conversations 
with Jeffrey Epstein," "The Value of Quantum Computation to 
Jeffrey Epstein," "Why Evolutionary Biology Intrigues Jeffrey 
Epstein," and "An Understanding of Theoretical Physics from 
Jeffrey Epstein." The latter post began: "This is where Jeffrey 
Epstein takes you to the very cutting edge of the frontiers of 
knowledge to explore and discuss our basic understanding of 
the subtle, simple, and hidden [qualities] that lie beneath ... our 
universe." 
"Jeffrey doesn't know shit about science," says Stuart Pivar, the 
art collector who has known Epstein for more than three decades. 
"Does he like to act like he does? Yes. But he doesn't. But as far as 
these academic scientists—without people like him they wouldn't 
have any money." 
Other friends of Epstein's say that he truly did have a b
. 
liant mind for science. And in any case, Epstein had done more 
than sponsor individual scientists. He'd also sponsored confer-
ences on Little Saint Jeff's. On his website, he announced a con-
ference called Mindshift at which Nobel laureates, such as the 
theoretical physicist Murray Gell-Mann, would mix with sur-
geons, engineers, and futurists and where professors would 
231 
JAMES PATTERSON 
discuss cognitive neuroscience, artificial intelligence, systems of 
encryption and decryption, and other topics. 
Epstein had been hosting get-togethers like this for years. 
Toward the end of Chief Reiter's investigation, in March of 2006, 
Epstein had hosted twenty top physicists—including three Nobel 
Prize winners as well as the celebrity physicist Stephen Hawking—
at a Saint Thomas symposium called "Confronting Gravity," 
which was advertised as "a workshop to explore fundamental 
questions in physics and cosmology." 
"This is a remarkable group," one of the Nobel Prize winners 
told a reporter for the St. Thomas Source. 
"There is no agenda except fun and physics, and that's fun 
with a capital F," Epstein said. 
Epstein had been especially interested in Stephen Hawking. 
Someday, Hawking had theorized, the universe would stop 
expanding and collapse, at which point time would begin to run 
backwards. Hawking believed that computer viruses were living 
things. He thought that given the size of the universe, alien life 
forms existed. He did not believe in God. But he had a vast appre-
ciation for the inner workings of the universe, and this is why 
Epstein gave Hawking a tremendous gift. He paid to have a sub-
marine modified so that it could fit Hawking and his wheelchair 
and give the scientist his first glimpse of an actual alien world—
the one that lies under the waves of the ocean. 
It was one of the most romantic, generous gestures that Jef-
frey Epstein had ever made. 
232 
Al Seckel: January 20E 
Epstein's partner in the 
Al Seckel, was know] 
were said to have incl 
cian James "the Amazing" : 
founder Elon Musk, as we: 
Epstein would court in the c 
ladder. 
In certain Los Angeles ci) 
to know. But, like Jeffrey Eps 
According to Mark Oppenhe 
and followed his career for fi 
by selling rare books and ix 
academic connections. 
"A number of these trans. 
lawsuits," Oppenheimer wol 
)ATTERSON 
artificial intelligence, systems of 
d other topics. 
get-togethers like this for years. 
.'s investigation, in March of 2006, 
physicists—including three Nobel 
brity physicist Stephen Hawking — 
tm called "Confronting Gravity," 
vorkshop to explore fundamental 
tology." 
one of the Nobel Prize winners 
las Source. 
Pt fun and physics, and that's fun 
interested in Stephen Hawking. 
orized, the universe would stop 
aich point time would begin to run 
I that computer viruses were living 
a the size of the universe, alien life 
eve in God. But he had a vast appre-
p of the universe, and this is why 
Lendous gift. He paid to have a sub-
uld fit Hawking and his wheelchair 
: glimpse of an actual alien world—
ayes of the ocean. 
mantic, generous gestures that Jef-
232 
CHAPTER 61 
Al Seckel: January 2012 
Epstein's partner in the Mindshift conference, a man named 
Al Seckel, was known for throwing fabulous parties that 
were said to have included the actor Dudley Moore, magi-
cian James "the Amazing" Randi, and future Tesla and SpaceX 
founder Elon Musk, as well as many of the scientists Jeffrey 
Epstein would court in the course of his own climb up the social 
ladder. 
•-.4i. In certain Los Angeles circles, Al Seckel was a very good man 
-to know. But, like Jeffrey Epstein, Seckel was a sort of illusionist. 
According to Mark Oppenheimer, a journalist who knew Seckel 
and followed his career for fifteen years, Seckel made his money 
by selling rare books and papers, often through his social and 
academic connections. 
"A number of these transactions resulted in accusations and 
lawsuits," Oppenheimer would write. "In speaking to former 
233 
JAMES PATTERSON 
It was an odd thing, Epste: 
PhD who, on closer inspec 
But the Mindshift confer 
in the Virgin Islands dic 
Mann was there, along wit 
coauthored books with St 
expert on artificial intelli 
attended the conference, 
about it. 
"We had scientific disci 
he said vaguely. 
When Mark Oppenheir 
Seckel, Sussman "got testy" 
"I have had some dealir 
want to say what it's aboi 
it, okay?" 
Today, Epstein's websites — 
JeffreyEpsteinScience.corn—
long since expired. Several r. 
tribut ions, including New lk 
Palm Beach, announced tha 
gifts. 
"The further I can keep 
better," said Ballet Palm Beac 
But in 2012, Epstein held 
Jeff's. Once again, three Nob€ 
Stephen Hawking was also th 
tvventy-one physicists—from . 
Seckel acquaintances, I kept hearing variations on a scheme Mrs. 
Pearce Williams believed he perpetrated against her late hus-
band, the man Seckel said was his mentor. Seckel took books 
and promised money, or he took money and promised a book; 
but somehow, the promised party lost money." 
"He was charming, erudite, humorous," one of Seckel's marks 
told the reporter. "I lent him $75,000. When the time came to 
pay it back he didn't want to do it." 
Oppenheimer found several people whom Seckel had stiffed 
and uncovered dozens of lawsuits he'd been involved in. In 2007, 
Seckel settled a libel lawsuit against a man who'd edited his Wiki-
pedia page. Years later, Oppenheimer spoke with Seckel's lawyer, 
Nicholas Hornberger. 
"Hornberger confirmed that he'd reached a settlement for the 
case, a favorable one," the journalist wrote. "Hornberger added 
that Seckel has still not paid him for his services." 
He also interviewed Seckel's wife, Isabel Maxwell. 
Al and Isabel met on a blind date and married in Malibu in or 
"around" 2007 ("I don't keep the dates in my head," Seckel 
explained). A few years later, they moved to the South of France, 
where Seckel continued to trade in rare books and papers. While 
living in France, he was sued by a Virgin Islands company that 
accused him and Isabel of fraudulently attempting to sell rare 
books and a seventeenth-century portrait of Isaac Newton. 
Seckel had also been trying to sell papers belonging to Isa-
bel's father. 
Isabel is Ghislaine Maxwell's sister and the daughter of Rob-
ert Maxwell. 
* * * 
234 
)ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
aring variations on a scheme Mrs. 
perpetrated against her late hus-
Ls his mentor. Seckel took books 
)ok money and promised a book; 
rty lost money." 
, humorous," one of Seckel's marks 
$75,000. When the time came to 
D it." 
al people whom Seckel had stiffed 
Lifts he'd been involved in. In 2007, 
;ainst a man who'd edited his Wiki-
heimer spoke with SeckePs lawyer, 
at he'd reached a settlement for the 
trnalist wrote. "Hornberger added 
Lim for his services." 
l's wife, Isabel Maxwell. 
Ld date and married in Malibu in or 
:p the dates in my head," Seckel 
they moved to the South of France, 
de in rare books and papers. While 
by a Virgin Islands company that 
7audulently attempting to sell rare 
:Airy portrait of Isaac Newton. 
.ng to sell papers belonging to 
ell's sister and the daughter of Rob-
* * 
234 
It was an odd thing, Epstein's association with this self-professed 
PhD who, on closer inspection, turned out to be a bit of a grifter. 
But the Mindshift conference that Epstein and Seckel hosted 
in the Virgin Islands did take place, in 2010. Murray Gel!-
Mann was there, along with Leonard Mlodinow, a physicist who 
coauthored books with Stephen Hawking. Gerald Sussman, an 
expert on artificial intelligence who taught at MIT and also 
attended the conference, said that he didn't remember too much 
about it. 
"We had scientific discussions, talked about various things," 
he said vaguely. 
When Mark Oppenheimer asked him if he'd given money to 
Seckel, Sussman "got testy" with the reporter. 
"I have had some dealings with him," Sussman said. "I don't 
want to say what it's about, because I don't feel good about 
it, okay?" 
Today, Epstein's websites—JeffreyEpsteinFoundation.com and 
JeffreyEpsteinScience.com—are down. Their domain names have 
long since expired. Several recipients of Epstein's charitable con-
tributions, including New York's Mount Sinai Hospital and Ballet 
Palm Beach, announced that they would not be accepting new 
gifts. 
"The further I can keep myself from anything like that the 
better," said Ballet Palm Beach founder Colleen Smith. 
But in 2012, Epstein held one more conference on Little Saint 
Jeff's. Once again, three Nobel Prize winners were in attendance. 
Stephen Hawking was also there. All in all, Epstein had gathered 
twenty-one physicists—from Princeton, Harvard, MIT, and CERN 
235 
JAMES PATTERSON 
(the European Organization for Nuclear Research) — to "deter-
mine what the consensus is, if any, for defining gravity." 
According to a press release issued by Epstein's foundation, 
the consensus that did emerge was that space is "not quite 
empty." 
Jeffrey Epstein: Februar 
It's Groundhog Day, and c 
ting the peak of his fame 
sode of Law & Order: SV 
own legal history. 
The setup for this episodi 
girl. One who's been flown tc 
vate jet, then flown back—cc 
On the plane, she has a fn 
guy sitting next to her is try 
police get involved. 
"It was just a birthday ix 
cops via videoconference fron 
The cops ask: Whose pres 
"The billionaire. The one i 
Does the French girl knom 
236 
kTTERSON 
r Nuclear Research) — to "deter-
ny, for defining gravity." 
issued by Epstein's foundation, 
r,e was that space is "not quite 
CHAPTER 62 
Jeffrey Epstein: February 2, 2011 
1 t's Groundhog Day, and once-reclusive Jeffrey Epstein is hit-
ting the peak of his fame in a ripped-from-the-headlines epi-
sode of Law & Order: SVU that tracks, eerily well, with his 
own legal history. 
The setup for this episode is the rape of a very young French 
girl. One who's been flown to New York on a very rich man's pri-
vate jet, then flown back—coach class—to Paris. 
On the plane, she has a freak-out. She thinks the middle-aged 
guy sitting next to her is trying to rape her. In Paris, the local 
police get involved. 
"It was just a birthday party," the tearful girl tells the SVU 
cops via videoconference from France. "We were his present." 
The cops ask: Whose present? 
"The billionaire. The one who owns the jet." 
Does the French girl know his name? 
236 
237 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"Jordan. He wanted a massage. But I had to take off my 
clothes. He climbed on top of me. It hurt. I started to bleed, and 
it wouldn't stop. The doctor came." 
"Dominique," the cops say. "We're going to arrest this man. 
But we need you to return to New York so you can testify." 
"Non," says the girl. "Non! Jamais! Jamais!" 
For Epstein, there are other embarrassments, many of which 
have to do with his royal friends. The wedding of Prince Wil-
liam and Kate Middleton is approaching, and the ongoing trou-
bles of Prince William's uncle Prince Andrew keep threatening 
to derail the festivities. On March 6, a spokesperson for Sarah 
Ferguson confirms that Epstein paid off part of the seventy-eight 
thousand pounds that the duchess borrowed from a man who 
was once her personal assistant. 
The next day, headlines appear in the Telegraph and other 
British papers: DUKE OF YORK "APPEALED TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN TO HELP 
DUCHESS PAY DEBT." 
"I personally, on behalf of myself, deeply regret that Jeffrey 
Epstein became involved in any way with me," Prince Andrew's 
ex-wife tells journalists. "I abhor paedophilia and any sexual 
abuse of children and know that this was a gigantic error of 
judgment on my behalf. 
"I am just so contrite I cannot say. Whenever I can I will 
repay the money and will have nothing ever to do with Jeffrey 
Epstein ever again." 
That week, as part of the ongoing civil lawsuits against 
Epstein, Sarah Kellen and Nadia Marcinkova are both asked 
about Prince Andrew's relations with Epstein. 
238 
F1 
"Would you agree with 
Epstein used to share under; 
len is asked. 
"On the instructions of 
invoke my Fifth Amendment 
"Have you ever been m; 
Andrew?" lawyers ask Marci. 
"Fifth" is Nadia's simple, 
That same week, the gover 
role as Great Britain's royal t 
tenacious, and in the Telegr 
stories appear on a daily basi: 
• The Duke, His Paedophi 
Use of an RAF Base 
• Andrew's Secret Love Lifi 
• Royal Connections: Princ 
Suddenly the Talk of Nev 
• Time to Show This Right 
• An Odd Trio: The Royal 
seuse and the Fixer 
• No. 10 Struggles to Conto 
• From Royal Asset to Nati, 
• Royal Blush 
• Duke Could Be Called to 
• It's the Company You Keep. 
• Nothing Grand About Thi 
• The Royal Family Has 
Choice of Friends For Yea 
• Our Less-Than-Grand Olc 
'ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ssage. But I had to take off my 
lie. It hurt. I started to bleed, and 
Tie." 
• "We're going to arrest this man. 
ew York so you can testify." 
ramais! Jamais!" 
embarrassments, many of which 
:nds. The wedding of Prince Wil-
)proaching, and the ongoing trou-
: Prince Andrew keep threatening 
[arch 6, a spokesperson for Sarah 
.n paid off part of the seventy-eight 
'chess borrowed from a man who 
at. 
ippear in the Telegraph and other 
'APPEALED TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN TO HELP 
f myself, deeply regret that Jeffrey 
ny way with me," Prince Andrew's 
ibhor paedophilia and any sexual 
• that this was a gigantic error of 
:annot say. Whenever I can I will 
we nothing ever to do with Jeffrey 
he ongoing civil lawsuits against 
Marcinkova are both asked 
)ns with Epstein. 
238 
"Would you agree with me that Prince Andrew and Jeffrey 
Epstein used to share underaged girls for sexual relations?" Kel-
len is asked. 
"On the instructions of my lawyer," Kellen replies, "I must 
invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege." 
"Have you ever been made to perform sexually on Prince 
Andrew?" lawyers ask Marcinkova. 
"Fifth" is Nadia's simple, succinct reply. 
That same week, the government downgrades Prince Andrew's 
role as Great Britain's royal trade envoy. But the British press is 
tenacious, and in the Telegraph, the Guardian, and elsewhere, 
stories appear on a daily basis: 
• The Duke, His Paedophile Guest, and the Most Unusual 
Use of an RAF Base 
• Andrew's Secret Love Life Revealed 
• Royal Connections: Prince Andrew and the Paedophile Are 
Suddenly the Talk of New York 
• Time to Show This Right Royal Clown the Door 
• An Odd Trio: The Royal Trade Envoy, the Teenage Mas-
seuse and the Fixer 
• No. 10 Struggles to Contain Row Over Prince 
• From Royal Asset to National Liability 
• Royal Blush 
• Duke Could Be Called to Two Epstein Trials 
• It's the Company You Keep... The Duke's Dangerous Liaisons 
• Nothing Grand About This Old Duke of York 
• The Royal Family Has Feared a Blow-Up Over Duke's 
Choice of Friends For Years 
• Our Less-Than-Grand Old Duke of York 
239 
JAMES PATTERSON 
On March 11, a devastating undersea earthquake and tsu-
nami move Japan's main island by several feet, shifting the earth 
on its axis. The destruction is horrific and unprecedented. But 
on March 13, the Daily Mail devotes four pages and seven sepa-
rate articles to Prince Andrew. That same day, the Telegraph runs 
three pieces, and the Sunday Times runs a two-page spread head-
lined GUN SMUGGLER BOASTS OF SWAY OVER ANDREW. 
On March 14, the Guardian runs one more piece about 
Andrew's troubles. 
PRINCE ANDREW DOMINATES HEADLINES DESPITE THE EARTHQUAKE, 
the headline reads. 
Alan Dershowitz: Septen 
If the ongoing lawsuits ar 
millions left to spare. Mea 
whether Epstein trafficked 
seems to be going nowhere. A 
fling to look as if Epstein is flu 
But for Epstein's friend an 
itz, things are about to get ver 
At the start of 2008, Brad 
lawyer, had filed a motion in 2 
of two unnamed women accu: 
showitz of participating direct 
Prince Andrew had had nc 
itz had objected to the accu. 
terms. 
"There's absolutely no kern 
240 
ATTERSON 
g undersea earthquake and tsu-
by several feet, shifting the earth 
horrific and unprecedented. But 
:votes four pages and seven sepa-
That same day, the Telegraph runs 
rnes runs a two-page spread head-
4:1' OVER ANDREW. 
ian runs one more piece about 
lEADLINES DESPITE THE EARTHQUAKE, 
240 
CHAPTER 63 
Alan Dershowitz: September 2014 
If the ongoing lawsuits are costing Epstein millions, he has 
millions left to spare. Meanwhile, the FBI's investigation into 
whether Epstein trafficked underage women across state lines 
seems to be going nowhere. As 2014 draws to a close, it's begin-
ning to look as if Epstein is finally free and clear of the case. 
But for Epstein's friend and sometime lawyer Alan Dershow-
i z, things are about to get very unpleasant. 
At the start of 2008, Bradley Edwards, the Fort Lauderdale 
lawyer, had filed a motion in a West Palm Beach court on behalf 
of two unnamed women accusing Prince Andrew and Alan Der-
showitz of participating directly in Epstein's illegal activities. 
Prince Andrew had had no comment to make, and Dershow-
ltz had objected to the accusations in the strongest' possible 
rms. 
"There's absolutely no kernel of truth to this story," he'd said. 
241 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"I don't know this woman. I've never been in the same place with 
her. She's made the whole story up out of whole cloth." 
Bradley Edwards had already become involved in lawsuits 
against Epstein. In 2007, working with a former federal judge 
and University of Utah law professor named Paul Cassell, he had 
filed a lawsuit on behalf of another unnamed woman. Six years 
later, that case is still pending, and now, Edwards and Cassell 
petition to have the two suits combined. 
All in all, four Jane Does take part in the lawsuit. 
Jane Doe 3 is Virginia Roberts, the girl who says that Ghis-
laine Maxwell recruited her for Epstein at Trump's resort, 
Mar-a-Lago. 
Epstein had "lent" her and other young girls to prominent 
businessmen, important politicians, world leaders, and other 
powerful men in order "to ingratiate himself with them for busi-
ness, personal, political, and financial gain, as well as to obtain 
blackmail information," Roberts claims. 
She says that Epstein forced her and other underage girls to 
take part in an orgy in the Virgin Islands. 
She names Prince Andrew and Alan Dershowitz as two of the 
men she'd been forced to have sex with and claims that Der-
showitz had been "an eyewitness to the sexual abuse of many 
other minors by Epstein and several of Epstein's co-conspirators." 
This time, Prince Andrew does respond to the allegations. 
"This relates to longstanding and ongoing civil proceedings 
in the United States, to which the Duke of York is not a party," 
Buckingham Palace says in a short statement. "As such we would 
not comment on the detail. However, for the avoidance of doubt, 
any suggestion of impropriety with underage minors is categori-
cally untrue." 
242 
Alan Dershowitz also 
are part of a plot to extol 
Edwards and Cassell have 
he's ever seen. 
"They manipulated a y 
interested in money," Ders 
offense, and they will be d: 
ever made this false charge 
But then, the allegations m 
15, 2015, in a declaration 
attempt to overturn Jeffrey 
are highly disturbing. 
PATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
never been in the same place with 
y up out of whole cloth." 
:ady become involved in lawsuits 
•king with a former federal judge 
)fessor named Paul Cassell, he had 
Lother unnamed woman. Six years 
.g, and now, Edwards and Cassell 
combined. 
ake part in the lawsuit. 
berts, the girl who says that Ghis-
r for Epstein at Trump's resort, 
id other young girls to prominent 
iticians, world leaders, and other 
;ratiate himself with them for busi-
financial gain, as well as to obtain 
rts claims. 
:ed her and other underage girls to 
rgin Islands. 
v and Alan Dershowitz as two of the 
ave sex with and claims that Der-
Iness to the sexual abuse of many 
3everal of Epstein's co-conspirators." 
v does respond to the allegations. 
ding and ongoing civil proceedings 
:h the Duke of York is not a party," 
short statement. "As such we would 
iowever, for the avoidance of doubt, 
ty with underage minors is categori-
242 
Alan Dershowitz also goes on the attack. Virginia's claims 
are part of a plot to extort him, he claims. The motion that 
Edwards and Cassell have filed is "the sleaziest legal document" 
he's ever seen. 
"They manipulated a young, suggestible woman who was 
interested in money," Dershowitz says. "This is a disbarrable 
offense, and they will be disbarred. They will rue the day they 
ever made this false charge against me." It's a vehement denial. 
But then, the allegations made by Virginia Roberts, on January 
15, 2015, in a declaration filed against the government in an 
attempt to overturn Jeffrey Epstein's non-prosecution agreement, 
are highly disturbing. 
243 
CHAPTER 64 
Declaration of Virginia Roberts Giuffre, filed on 
January 19, 2015 by attorneys representing Jeffrey 
Epstein's victims (continued) 
20. Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz was around 
Epstein frequently. Dershowitz was so comfortable with the 
sex [that] was going on that on one occasion he observed me 
in sexual activity with Epstein. 
21. I had sexual intercourse with Dershowitz at least six 
times. The first time was when I was about 16, early on in 
my servitude to Epstein, and it continued until I was 19. 
22. The first time we had sex took place in New York in 
Epstein's home. It was in Epstein's room (not the massage 
room). I was approximately sixteen years old at the time. I 
called Dershowitz "Alan." I knew he was a famous professor. 
23. The second time that I had sex with Dershowitz was 
at Epstein's house in Palm Beach. 
244 
24. I also had sex 
Ranch in New Mexico i 
pool area, which was St 
25. We also had se 
U.S. Virgin Islands. 
26. Another sexual 
itz happened on Epstein 
on the plane with us. 
27. I have recently 
calling me a "liar." He 
with me. The man I've .s( 
mer law professor, is th, 
least six times. Dershow 
with other underage girl 
but he is lying and denyii 
28. After years of ab 
look for a way to escape. 
hold because I wanted to) 
taken me into his clutches 
some time I believed him. 
trol, regardless of my doul 
29. I kept asking Epsi 
education. Epstein finally 
to go to Chiang Mai to h 
like my chance to escape. 
bags for good. I knew this 
break away. 
30. On September 27, 2 
to Chiang Mai, Thailand. I 
my training. But Epstein vs 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 64 
9berts Giuffre, filed on 
-neys representing Jeffrey 
ed) 
- Alan Dershowitz was around 
vitz was so comfortable with the 
on one occasion he observed me 
em. 
urse with Dershowitz at least six 
then I was about 16, early on in 
d it continued until I was 19. 
2d sex took place in New York in 
Epstein's room (not the massage 
y sixteen years old at the time. I 
knew he was a famous professor. 
it I had sex with Dershowitz was 
3each. 
244 
24. I also had sex with Dershowitz at Epstein's Zorro 
Ranch in New Mexico in the massage room off of the indoor 
pool area, which was still being painted. 
25. We also had sex at Little Saint James Island in the 
U.S. Virgin Islands. 
26. Another sexual encounter between me and Dershow-
itz happened on Epstein's airplane. Another girl was present 
on the plane with us. 
27. I have recently seen Alan Dershowitz on television 
calling me a "liar" He is lying by denying that he had sex 
with me. The man I've seen on television, described as a for-
mer law professor, is the same man that I had sex with at 
least six times. Dershowitz also knows that Epstein had sex 
with other underage girls and lent me out to other people, 
but he is lying and denying that. . . . 
28. After years of abuse and being lent out, I began to 
look for a way to escape. I had first gone into Epstein's house-
hold because I wanted to be a massage therapist. Epstein had 
taken me into his clutches through promises and talk and for 
some time I believed him. But once he had me under his con-
trol, regardless of my doubts and fears, I felt trapped. 
29. I kept asking Epstein for my promised training and 
education. Epstein finally got me a plane ticket to Thailand 
to go to Chiang Mai to learn Thai massage. This sounded 
like my chance to escape. In September 2002, I packed my 
bags for good. I knew this would be my only opportunity to 
break away. 
30. On September 27, 2002, I flew from JFK in New York 
to Chiang Mai, Thailand. I arrived around September 29 for 
my training. But Epstein was going to get something out of 
245 
JAMES PATTERSON 
this trip as well. I was supposed to interview a girl and bring 
her back to the United States for Epstein. 
31. [Left blank in the original] 
32. I did the massage training in Chiang Mai. While I 
was there, I met a great and special guy and told him hon-
estly what I was being forced to do. He told me I should get 
out of it. I told him that the people I was working for were 
very powerful and that I could not walk away or disobey 
them without risking serious punishment, including my life. 
He told me he would protect me. I had confidence [in] him 
and I saw his love and help as my opportunity to escape and 
to be with someone who truly loved me and would protect 
me. I married him and flew to Australia. 
33. I called Epstein and told him I was not coming back. 
He asked why? I said "I've fallen in love." Epstein basically 
said "good luck and have a good life." I could tell he was not 
happy. I was afraid of what he was going to do to me. I 
thought he or one of his powerful friends might send some-
one to hurt me or have me killed. 
34. From that point onward, out of concern for my safety 
and general well-being, I stayed in Australia with my hus-
band. I was in Australia from late 2002 to October 2013. To 
be clear, I was never in the United States during these years, 
not even for a short trip to visit my mother. And my absence 
from the United States was not voluntary—I was hiding 
from Epstein out of fear of what he would do to me if I 
returned to the United States. 
35. In around 2007, after not hearing from anyone for 
years, out of the blue I was contacted by someone who identi-
fied himself with a plain sounding name and claimed he was 
246 
FT 
with the FBI. It seemed vc 
cial criminal investigatiot 
that. I hadn't heard Epste 
who this person was and I 
tell what was going on. 
36. This man said he 
The man asked if I had be 
instinct was to say nothii 
really with the FBI or any c 
questions, telling him that 
met him at a young age. Bu 
This man never offered to c 
Instead, he asked me right 
practices. I thought it woulc 
ment officer to behave tha 
uncomfortable and suspicit 
ing me. 
37. I told the man nothi 
versation probably didn't 
immediately triggered all oj 
erful friends that had caust 
If the call accomplished an: 
state of fear and told me tl' 
and had nobody officially pt 
38. I suspected that the; 
for Epstein or one of Epstein': 
if this was really an agent 14 
would have known who I wa 
ual crimes in many differet 
viewed me in a way that woul 
PATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
osed to interview a girl and bring 
for Epstein. 
riginall 
training in Chiang Mai. While I 
id special guy and told him hon-
:ed to do. He told me I should get 
ie people I was working for were 
could not walk away or disobey 
us punishment, including my life. 
ct me. I had confidence [in] him 
) as my opportunity to escape and 
ruly loved me and would protect 
to Australia. 
told him I was not coming back. 
• fallen in love." Epstein basically 
good life." I could tell he was not 
hat he was going to do to me. I 
9werfu1 friends might send some-
killed. 
ward, out of concern for my safety 
stayed in Australia with my hus-
pm late 2002 to October 2013. To 
• United States during these years, 
visit my mother. And my absence 
as not voluntary —I was hiding 
of what he would do to me if I 
tes. 
fter not hearing from anyone for 
contacted by someone who identi-
)unding name and claimed he was 
246 
with the FBI. It seemed very odd for someone doing an offi-
cial criminal investigation to just call up on the phone like 
that. I hadn't heard Epstein's name for years. I didn't know 
who this person was and what it was really about. I couldn't 
tell what was going on. 
36. This man said he was looking into Jeffrey Epstein. 
The man asked if I had been involved with Epstein. My first 
instinct was to say nothing because I wasn't sure he was 
really with the FBI or any authorities. I answered a few basic 
questions, telling him that I knew Jeffrey Epstein and had 
met him at a young age. But the conversation didn't feel right. 
This man never offered to come and meet with me in person. 
Instead, he asked me right off the bat about Epstein's sexual 
practices. I thought it would be strange for a true law enforce-
ment officer to behave that way, so I became increasingly 
uncomfortable and suspicious about who was actually call-
ing me. 
37. I told the man nothing more about Epstein. The con-
versation probably didn't even last three minutes, but it 
immediately triggered all of the fears of Epstein and his pow-
erful friends that had caused me to escape in the first place. 
If the call accomplished anything, it only put me back in a 
state of fear and told me that I could be found quite easily 
and had nobody officially protecting me. 
38. I suspected that the man who called me was working 
for Epstein or one of Epstein's powerful friends. I believed that 
if this was really an agent who was investigating Epstein, he 
would have known who I was and how I fit into Epstein's sex-
ual crimes in many different places. He would have inter-
viewed me in a way that would have established his credentials 
247 
JAMES PATTERSON 
and would have shown how he could provide potential protec-
tion from Epstein. That never happened. 
39. Getting a call from this supposed FBI agent made me 
scared all over again. I had left the old life of sexual slavery 
behind me and started a new life in a new country in hopes 
that the powerful people whose illegal activities I knew all 
about would never find me. 
40. Shortly after this purported FBI call, I was contacted 
by telephone by someone who appeared clearly to be working 
for Epstein. The caller told me about an investigation into 
Epstein and said that some of the girls being questioned were 
saying that Epstein had had sexual contact with them. After 
they made these allegations, the man said they were being 
discredited as drug addicts and prostitutes, but in my case, if 
I were to keep quiet, I would "be looked after." The fact that 
this call was made shortly after the supposed FBI call rein-
for[c]ed my concern that the man I had talked to earlier was 
not really working for the FBI but for Epstein. I didn't think 
that the FBI and Epstein would both be working together and 
would both get my phone number at almost exactly the same 
time. I played along and told this person that I had gotten a 
call from the "FBI" but that I didn't tell him anything. The 
person on the phone was pleased to hear [that]. 
41. A short time later, one of Epstein's lawyers (not Alan 
Dershowitz) called me, and then got Epstein on the line at 
the same time. Epstein and his lawyer basically asked again 
if I was going to say anything. The clear implication was that 
I should not. The way they were talking to me, I was afraid of 
what would happen if I didn't keep quiet. My thought was 
248 
that f I didn't say what 
I might get hurt. 
42. I promised Epste 
quiet. They seemed hap 
to [be the] way to keep 
what Epstein and his lrn 
This declaration, strick 
victims' lawsuit against t 
events that led to Dershow 
involved in spectacular la' 
Dershowitz that these alle 
him, and a complaint by Ei 
against him were false and 
TTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
could provide potential protec-
tappened. 
s supposed FBI agent made me 
ft the old life of sexual slavery 
life in a new country in hopes 
'se illegal activities I knew all 
>orted FBI call, I was contacted 
appeared clearly to be working 
ne about an investigation into 
the girls being questioned were 
;exual contact with them. After 
the man said they were being 
id prostitutes, but in my case, if 
"be looked after." The fact that 
fter the supposed FBI call rein-
man I had talked to earlier was 
3I but for Epstein. I didn't think 
id both be working together and 
nber at almost exactly the same 
1 this person that I had gotten a 
I didn't tell him anything. The 
Ised to hear [that]. 
Le of Epstein's lawyers (not Alan 
then got Epstein on the line at 
us lawyer basically asked again 
g. The clear implication was that 
,ere talking to me, I was afraid of 
ln't keep quiet. My thought was 
that if I didn't say what they wanted me to say, or not to say, 
I might get hurt. 
42. I promised Epstein and his lawyer that I would keep 
quiet. They seemed happy with that and that seemed to me 
to [be the] way to keep me and my family safe. And I did 
what Epstein and his lawyer told me. I kept quiet. 
This declaration, stricken from the record by the judge in the 
victims' lawsuit against the government, also set in motion 
events that led to Dershowitz's and Roberts's lawyers becoming 
involved in spectacular lawsuits, which included a complaint by 
Dershowitz that these allegations were false and had defamed 
him, and a complaint by Edwards that Dershowitz's accusations 
against him were false and defamatory. 
248 249 
CHAPTER 65 
Alan Dershowitz: October 2015 
About fifteen minutes into the ripped-from-the-headlines 
episode of Law & Order: SVU that was inspired by the Jef-
frey Epstein saga, the plot takes an interesting turn: before 
officers have a chance to arrest him, Jordan, the character mod-
eled on Epstein, shows up at SVU headquarters. 
The twelve-year-old French girl raped him, Jordan says. 
Wearing a monogrammed fleece pullover like the ones favored 
by Jeffrey Epstein, he describes an evening at home. 
"The party was in full swing," he explains. "A friend said she 
wanted to give me a special present. Told me to wait in my mas-
sage room—" 
An SVU guy interrupts: "Guy has a massage room?" 
"I suffer from chronic back pain," Jordan says. 
"While I was waiting, I fell asleep. Now, at first I thought I 
must be dreaming. I was aroused. I felt myself being manually' 
250 
manipulated. Then I reme: 
enjoy myself. But then it gc 
eyes." 
"What did you see?" 
"A woman. A woman Ic 
"A woman? Dominique 
"It was dark. I just wan. 
"But the twelve-year-olc 
"No. She threatened me. 
she was going to scream `R 
"And there was nothini 
years and a hundred pound 
"The party was going on: 
was going to look. I was nake 
It was a brilliant plot tw-
dan to get off scot-free. 
But the plot twist that / 
on the day of Alan Dershow 
Florida, courthouse was eve 
"There was a criminal extort 
Edwards and Paul Cassell's I 
2015. 
"Your clients were involv 
Bradley and Cassell had s 
for defamation—payback fo 
law professor had made in th 
Dershowitz had counters 
and he had come armed for b 
