From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Attachments: 
Morris, Paul V 
1/15/2019 4:44:33 PM 
jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Opportunity Zones 
image001.jpg; image002.jpg; image003.jpg; image004.jpg 
Importance: High 
Hope all well, are you doing anything around these or clients? 
In a former warehouse on a dimly lit street in the South Bronx, developers sipping Puerto 
Rican moonshine listened as a local official urged them to capture a new U.S. tax break by 
rebuilding the decaying neighborhood. 
In Alabama, a young lawyer quit his job after seeing the same tax break's potential to help 
one of the nation's poorest states. He now spends his days driving his Hyundai from town 
to town, slideshow at the ready, hoping to connect investors with communities. 
And on a conference call with potential clients, a prominent hedge fund executive pitched 
investments in a boutique hotel in Oakland, which he described as San Francisco's 
Brooklyn. The project is eligible for the same tax break, designed to help the poor. 
Betting on Opportunity Zones 
Sales of development sites are surging in areas eligible for tax breaks 
Source: Real Capital Analytics 
Fervor about opportunity zones is heating up across the U.S. For a limited time, investors 
who develop real estate or fund businesses in these areas are able to defer capital gains on 
profits earned elsewhere and completely eliminate them on new investments in 8,700 low-
income census tracts. The goal is to reinvigorate these areas. But the question is whether 
the 2017 tax law will, as U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin predicts, pump $100 
billion into places that need it most, or if investors will play it safe by funding projects in a 
few zones already on the upswing. 
QuicktakeWill 'Opportunity Zones' Help the Rich, the Poor or Both?  
There's no lack of optimism among officials in shrinking Rust Belt towns, wind-swept 
Western landscapes and hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico, who hope to jump-start local 
economies. The incentives are so flexible they could be used for everything from affordable 
housing to solar farms. 
Yet on the investor side, much of the attention is fixed on how to turn a profit in already 
thriving areas. They include neighborhoods surrounding Manhattan, Atlantic beach towns  
drawing vacation-home developers, bedroom communities near Silicon Valley and 
anomalies like Portland, Oregon, where the entire downtown was deemed eligible for the 
breaks. 
"The phrase I keep thinking of is 'gold rush,' " said Michael Lortz, an accountant who 
works with developers in Portland. "There's a lot of money from out of town that's coming 
here." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016413 
Already, a policy debate is raging. Backers are urging people to reserve judgment and say 
the tax breaks have galvanized cities, businesses and investors to think creatively about 
boosting parts of the country most in need. Critics say the incentives were poorly 
calibrated and may amount to a boondoggle far in excess of the official $1.6 billion 
projected cost. 
Americans may have to wait months or years to learn which side is right. That's because 
the law doesn't require investors to disclose projects, making it difficult to tell which areas 
are benefiting the most. 
But there's plenty of evidence that a boom is brewing. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which 
already had an investment team focusing on struggling communities, has disclosed about 
$150 million in projects in recent months. Purchases of sites inside opportunity zones 
spiked as the tax law took effect, outpacing growth in other areas, according to Real 
Capital Analytics, which tracks property sales. Altogether, investors spent 62 percent more 
on properties eligible for tax breaks in the 12 months through September, compared with 
those in the same census tracts a year earlier, its data show. 
Here are snapshots of what's happening across America: 
Bronx Boost 
Port Morris Distillery, which makes a high-alcohol rum called pitorro, was the perfect spot 
for an opportunity zone pitch. It's on a block with a colorful mural, industrial buildings 
ready for loft conversions and views of the Manhattan skyline. Much of the surrounding 
South Bronx is now an opportunity zone. 
"We have always been the most ignored," Marlene Cintron, the borough's head of 
economic development, told an audience of developers and lawyers in November. "These 
opportunity zones are here for you to take advantage of them." 
The case for the Bronx, where incomes are among the lowest in New York, is that it's the 
last borough awaiting revitalization. The tax incentives are designed to unleash it. If 
developers can buy at current Bronx prices, before seeing a Brooklyn-like rise, the breaks 
would be massive. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016414 
The Bronx Tavern and Port Morris Distillery. 
Photographer: David 'Dee' Delgado/Bloomberg 
"Huge, huge upside that you're not going to get if you build a strip mall in Topeka," said 
Terri Adler, managing partner of law firm Duval & Stachenfeld LLP, who also spoke at the 
event. 
Yet the Bronx faces a formidable problem: It's competing with other zones across the city, 
including waterfronts in Brooklyn and Queens with stronger momentum. The tax break 
Bronx officials hope will rejuvenate their borough may instead lure more money to what 
looks like a safer bet across the river. 
In November, Amazon.com Inc. selected Long Island City for its next headquarters. 
Portions of that Queens neighborhood, including a former plastics factory the retailer 
plans to occupy, are inside opportunity zones, even though they're among the city's fastest-
growing areas. In 2017, more apartments were built there than in any other neighborhood 
in the city. 
Driving Alabama 
Alex Flachsbart, 30, has a lot of time to talk when he's in his SUV crisscrossing Alabama. A 
lawyer who specialized in economic development grants and tax breaks, he quit his job last 
year to start Opportunity Alabama, aiming to connect capital to worthy projects. For the 
past several months, he's been educating people about opportunity zones, speaking to 
local officials, businesses and investors. 
"I have done the OZ PowerPoint God knows how many times," Flachsbart, who grew up in 
the Bay Area, said from behind the wheel one day in December. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016415 
Alex Flachsbart gives a presentation on opportunity zones in Athens, Alabama. 
Photographer: Nicole Craine/Bloomberg 
When he read about opportunity zones in a 2017 draft of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, his 
mind reeled. Here was an uncapped subsidy far more flexible than anything he'd used 
before. It could draw investment for an array of projects. He imagined funding startups in 
Huntsville, where NASA's presence has lured a deep bench of talented engineers, and the 
renovation of an old civic complex in Mobile. 
Flachsbart's nonprofit—which has board members from the state's largest utility and its 
biggest bank, Regions Financial Corp.—is now in talks for 10 potential projects that need 
more than $loo million in equity investment, he said. None have been funded yet, but he's 
certain some will be. Meanwhile, he keeps driving. 
Baltimore Billionaire 
One of the arguments over opportunity zones is whether the U.S. is handing wealthy 
investors and companies big breaks on projects they would've done anyway. One example: 
Hedge fund executive and former White House spokesman Anthony Scaramucci plans to 
build a "swank, boutique hotel" in Oakland. The paperwork for the permit was filed 
months before the neighborhood was designated an opportunity zone. 
But that project pales in comparison to what's happening in Baltimore. More than a year 
before President Donald Trump signed the law, real estate developer Steven Siegel helped 
negotiate one of the largest public financing deals of its kind for a client, a company owned 
by billionaire Kevin Plank, founder of athletic-wear maker Under Armour Inc.  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016416 
Port Covington area of Baltimore. 
Photographer: Sarah L. Voisin/The Washington Post via Getty Images 
In 2016, Baltimore's city council approved a $660 million financing package for a 235-acre 
mixed-use development, including new offices for Under Armour, along the city's 
waterfront. The area was already designated as an enterprise zone and a brownfield site, 
connoting additional lucrative tax breaks, and the project attracted a $233 million 
investment from Goldman Sachs's urban investment group. 
Then came the opportunity zone designation. 
The tax break is only supposed to apply to real estate purchased after the law took effect. 
But lawyers across the country quickly began working around that to get the benefits for 
projects planned before the law was passed. Many tax experts have recommended sales to 
new entities. So long as the seller owns no more than 20 percent of the buyer, the 
transaction counts as arm's-length and qualifies. 
Siegel said his firm, Weller Development, has found enough new investors to comply with 
the arm's-length requirement. The company has seen so much demand, he said, that he's 
looking to replicate the project elsewhere. 
"We've been fielding a lot of inbound interest," Siegel said, declining to name cities that 
have approached him. "That stimulated us to take this show on the road." 
Boulder Balks 
In mid-December, during a marathon city council meeting that stretched past midnight, 
Boulder became perhaps the first jurisdiction in the country to reject its own opportunity 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016417 
zone. Officials in the Colorado town imposed an 18-month moratorium on almost all 
development in its only census tract earmarked for the incentives. 
The move highlights how local officials have the power to respond to criticisms of the 
law—in this case, that investors may rush to build projects the community doesn't want. 
Boulder has long been a favorite spot for growing companies because people want to live 
there, thanks to its college-town vibe and quick access to nature. 
"People think we have too much" development, said Bob Yates, a council member. "We're 
not Detroit." 
An eyebrow salon is surrounded by empty stores at Diagonal Plaza in Boulder. 
Photographer: Rachel Woolf/Bloomberg 
Though Yates, a former telecom executive, opposed the moratorium and worries it will 
make things difficult for businesses in the zone, he understands why people in Boulder, a 
liberal enclave, were skeptical of an idea enacted by a Republican Congress. He just wishes 
his city would take a more measured approach. 
The zone includes an aging mall called Diagonal Plaza. The tax incentives could have 
spurred investors to redevelop it to include affordable housing, which is sorely needed, he 
said. 
"Boulder's teachers can't live in Boulder," he said. "It's not a healthy thing to have 
socioeconomic divide where lower-income people have to live outside of town to serve 
higher-income people in town." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016418 
Paul V. Morris 
Managing Director —The Morris Group 
Private Banking and Investment Group 
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
One Bryant Park, 28th Floor 
This message, and any attachments, is for the intended recipient(s) only, may contain information that is 
privileged, confidential and/or proprietary and subject to important terms and conditions available at 
http://www.bankofamerica.com/emaildisclaimer. If you are not the intended recipient, please delete this 
message. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016419 
