From: 
on behalf of 
Sent: 
To: 
Attachments: 
Jeffrey, 
Gi Feather [ 
Gerald Barton 
4/23/2014 12:07:37 PM 
Jeevacation@gmail.com 
att15d3a.JPG 
Thank you for the kindness shown to me and my family in the periodic availability of the New York apartment. 
Lesley has done an admirable job in making us feel welcome and always with good cheer. 
Some years ago, we talked about the opportunity to use Landmark's $166 million tax loss. At that time, my 
ambition, ego, or stupidity limited the discussion. My memory is you, after discussions with Larry Summers, 
decided the pursuit was not worth the prey. Now, age (which I laughingly call maturity) or new information, 
has opened doors that I believe we can now accomplish the goals we discussed some years ago. 
If, at a time and place of your convenience, you had 30 minutes for me to outline the fundamentals of the plan, 
you would know what I believe would work and if your mental quickness is still there, you would know 
whether or not you wanted to proceed. Certainly, when the goal is so great, 30 minutes with an old friend is not 
a great sacrifice. 
On a personal note, your friend, Larry Summers, recently gave a meaningful speech in Toronto entitled "Will 
2014 End Up Like 1914". You may find it worth reading. Your friend, Donald Trump recently purchased a 
project we developed on the west coast of Ireland, Doonbeg Golf Club. It has been consistently rated the best 
resort in Europe. 
Jeffrey, please let me know when and where this is convenient for you. 
Jerry 
Gerald G. Barton 
Landmark Land Company, Inc. 
P.O. Box 1880 
Upper Marlboro, MD 20773 
Phone: 
Fax: 
DISCLAIMER: This e-mail message, including any attached files and subsequent replies, is intended only for the 
exclusive use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed and may contain information that is proprietary, privileged, 
confidential and/or exempt from disclosure under applicable law. If the reader of this e-mail message is not the intended 
recipient, you are hereby notified that any viewing, copying, disclosure or distribution of this communication is strictly 
prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify the sender immediately by either telephone or e-mail, 
and delete the original and any copies from your computer system. Thank you 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026547 
