From: 
Sent: 2/8/2017 10:20:59 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: Edmond de Rothschild Infrastructure Expertise 
Importance: High 
If it s a debt fund , they were thinking of building it around senior and mezzanine debt which would yield 8 to 
10% per yr with a kicker 
Ariane de Rothschild 
On 8 Feb 2017, at 12:59, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
thanks, the issue will be returns on investment. . there is a HUGE amount of cash sitting on the 
sidelines, trump will want to do private public partnerships on most things. . donald loves the 
rothschild name. 
On Wed, Feb 8, 2017 at 7:23 AM, EL HACHEM Johnny • > wrote: 
Dear Jeff, 
As previously discussed between you and Ariane, Edmond de Rothschild is deeply involved in the building and 
financing of the infrastructure in Europe. Edmond de Rothschild has an outstanding track record, history and 
presence in European infrastructure, as well as being one of Europe's most recognized financial advisors to 
the infrastructure market. We have developed deep expertise in the infrastructure sector and sought secure, 
well-managed assets, generating stable, long-term returns for investors. 
We have done so by initiating and backing two experienced and highly-respected managers in the industry, 
TIIC and BRIDGE. TIIC is an equity investor in transport and social infrastructure. BRIDGE is an infrastructure 
debt provider. Both managers are covered in more detail below. Edmond de Rothschild has been heavily 
involved in the launch of the below funds, providing crucial support in fund structuring, due diligence, capital 
raising, legal & compliance functions as well as the sound governance and ESG management across all funds. 
Partnering with TIIC and BRIDGE has enabled Edmond de Rothschild to build a strong franchise within 
infrastructure investments, complementing its overall Private Equity offering. Edmond de Rothschild has also 
acted as anchor investor for these funds, demonstrating its strong alignment of interest with these 
investment teams. With Ariane we strongly believe that we should absolutely find a way to collaborate 
together with you to think and initiate something to serve the future needs of the US in the infrastructure 
field. 
Please find attached further information on each manager. This would also be a chance for us to explore 
opportunities of working together in the future. 
Please feel free to reach out to us if you require any further information. We look forward to hearing from 
you soon. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026064 
TIIC 
TIIC Group backed by Edmond de Rothschild, is a pan-European infrastructure firm advising on mid-market 
infrastructure projects across Europe in both the transportation and social sectors. It was established in 2008 
by the 3 founding partners of TIIC Group, Jaime d'Almeida, Manuel Cary and Francisco Mendes, with strategic 
support from the Edmond de Rothschild Group and Brisa. 
The aim of TIIC Group is to bring an operational approach to infrastructure investments in Europe, drawing 
upon the extensive management and financial skills of its team members. These skills have been developed 
over many years at some of Europe's leading infrastructure operators and project financing firms which, 
when combined with the very specific infrastructure expertise of both the Edmond de Rothschild Group and 
Brisa, makes for a powerful and differentiated investment platform. 
TIIC Group operates from two offices in Lisbon and Paris, providing its team with access to relevant 
investment opportunities across key target markets in Europe as well as to leading industrial contractors, 
operators, advisors and financiers in the infrastructure industry. 
TIIC Group successfully raised a First Fund with €140m of commitments targeting transportation investments 
across Europe. The portfolio of the First Fund comprises 6 assets located in Portugal, Spain, France and 
Poland. They represent a carefully balanced mix of greenfield and early stage brownfield projects in roads 
and car parks. TIIC Group has played an active role in the sourcing and development of all investments and 
has made a significant contribution to value creation. TIIC Group believes that this is a high quality, 
operationally secure, cash yielding portfolio of assets which will be of strong interest to potential investors 
over the coming few years. 
TIIC has launched a successor fund, TIIC 2, which will build upon TIIC Group' differentiated approach to 
infrastructure in Europe. TIIC 2 will is targeting aggregate commitments from investors of €300m (€350m 
hard cap) to invest into both transportation and social infrastructure projects in Europe. TIIC 2 will also seek 
to invest, on a very selective basis, into greenfield social infrastructure projects in New Frontier Markets, 
within close proximity to the European Union. Given its powerful network of relationships across Europe and 
the operational skills of its team, TIIC Group will continue to target superior investment returns for TIIC 2's 
portfolio of assets. These returns should be in line with the anticipated returns from the First Fund portfolio 
which is forecast to deliver a gross IRR of up to 14% and a multiple of approximately 2x on invested capital. 
TIIC announced the first close of TIIC 2 on December 30th 2016, with aggregate commitments of €135m from 
a group of high quality and well-diversified limited partners. First close investors in TIIC 2 include the 
European Investment Bank and Edmond de Rothschild, both with significant commitments, as well as the 
TIIC team. TIIC 2 is also supported by a number of existing investors, together with several European 
insurance companies, pension funds and family offices. A second close is planned in the coming months and 
the final close will occur before the end of 2017. We have received significant interest from a number of 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026065 
European institutional investors, many of which are in the process of completing detailed due diligence on 
TIIC 2. We are firmly on track to achieve a final close of TIIC 2 before the end of the year. 
Furthermore, TIIC has announced the first exit from Fund 1, with outstanding returns. Three other 
investments are in sales processes and should close during the next few months. 
BRIDGE 
BRIDGE is an infrastructure debt platform initiated by Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management (EdRAM) to 
enable institutional investors to access infrastructure assets with secured and stable revenue streams. BRIDGE 
is a London based second generation debt fund sourcing and structuring transactions directly from sponsors 
when feasible and one of the few independent debt teams only investing on behalf of clients. The BRIDGE team 
has the ability to execute and deliver transactions as efficiently as traditional lenders as well as negotiate terms 
and conditions bringing optimised yield and security to investors. 
The BRIDGE platform was set up as a new leg of EDR's Infrastructure, Real Assets & Structured Finance Team 
striving to take advantage of the expertise of the infrastructure sector acquired when the team became a global 
leader in PPP & Transport infrastructure financial advisory in 2011 and 2012. 
The BRIDGE platform raised € 400m of new monies in 2016 and has successfully reached the €1bn mark of 
Assets under Management at the end of 2016. The platform comprises three investment vehicles (French FCT 
and Lux SIF) and is currently fundraising for additional pockets of liquidity: 
o BRIDGE I reached final closing in December 2014 with approximately €600m of aggregate commitments from a club 
of institutional investors. 
o BRIDGE I Dedicated Compartmentis a vehicle created by a large European institution and anchor investor of the first 
fund with a €250m target amount available for deployment. 
o BRIDGE II reached first close in December 2016 with €150m of commitments in order to invest in three transactions. 
Fundraising for BRIDGE ll is still ongoing, targeting a group of institutional investors in Europe and elsewhere, with final 
target size of €600m. 
The BRIDGE platform has a long-term European investment strategy and a mandate to cover all sectors of 
infrastructure, notably energy, renewables, utilities, transportation, telecommunications and social 
infrastructure and can execute project financing, refinancing and acquisition finance transactions. 
The BRIDGE platform currently comprises investments of between €20-120 million each, in 17 European 
infrastructure transactions. In 2016 alone, the BRIDGE team has achieved financial close for 11 infrastructure 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026066 
deals in Europe aggregating ca. €390m. When benchmarked against other similar funds, the investment team 
has succeeded in deploying faster and with credit spreads well above the infrastructure senior debt benchmark, 
enabling BRIDGE to become a force in the growing institutions-backed infrastructure debt market. BRIDGE's 
ability to invest beyond the traditional definition of core infrastructure and to structure transactions was a key 
differentiator when Edmond de Rothschild launched this platform, as part of its commitment to real economy. 
BRIDGE is innovative in the sense that the investment team sources transactions directly from sponsors and is 
actively involved in the structuring phase, acting as Mandated Lead Arranger. 
BRIDGE comprises a large, international and skilled London based investment team of 11 investment 
professionals who between them have arranged more than €100bn of landmark infrastructure deals over the 
last 20 years across the globe. The BRIDGE team is among the largest within the debt funds universe and 
demonstrates the Edmond de Rothschild Group's commitment to the platform. 
Kind regards, 
Johnny 
Johnny el HACHEM 
Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity 
29 Route de Pre-Bois 
Case postale 490 
1215 Geneve 15 
Suisse 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026067 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026068 
