• 
2139 PALM BEACH LAKES BLVD. 
WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA 33409 
P.O. BOX 3626 
WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA 33402 
Mpanish 
ATTORNEYS AT LAW: 
ROSALYN SIA BAKER-BARNES 
'F. GREGORY BARNHART 
T HARDEE BASS, III 
LAURIE J. BRIGGS 
'BRIAN R. DENNEY 
BRENDA S. FULMER 
'MARIANO GARCIA 
JAMES W. GUSTAFSON, JR. 
MARA R. P. HATFIELD 
ADAM S. HECHT 
JACK P. HILL 
KELLY HYMAN 
DAVID K. KELLEY, JR. 
CAMERON M. KENNEDY 
WILLIAM B. KING7 
DARRYL L LEWIS1 
'WILLIAM A. NORTON 
PATRICK E. QUINLAN' 
EDWARD V. RICCI 
'JOHN SCARDLA 
MATTHEW K. SCHWENCKE 
'CHRISTIAN D. SEARCY 
'JOHN A. SHIPLEY III 
CHRISTOPHER K. SPEED 99 
BRIAN P. SULLIVAN 246 
KAREN E. TERRY 
DDNALD J. WARD Ill" 
C. CALVIN WARRINER II 
()EGO__ FUSEL 
'EARL L DENNEY, JR.5 
SHAREHOLDERS 
BDARD CERTIFIED 
ALSO ADMLUEQ 
1 KENTUCKY 
2 MAINE 
3 MARYLAND 
4 MASSACHUSETTS 
MISSISSIPPI 
6 NEW HAMPSHIRE 
7 NEW JERSEY 
VIRGINIA 
9 WASHINGTDN DC 
PARALEGALS: 
VIVIAN AYAN-TEJEDA 
RANDY M. DUFRESNE 
DAVID W. GILMORE 
JOHN C. HOPKINS 
DEBORAH M. KNAPP 
VINCENT L. LEONARD, JR. 
JAMES PETER LOVE 
RDBERT W. PITCHER 
PABLO PERHACS 
KATHLEEN SIMON 
STEVE M. SMITH 
BDNNIE S. STARK 
WALTER A. STEIN 
SEARCY 
DENNEY 
SCAROLA 
BARN HART 
e-SHIPLEY. 
Tuesday, October 1, 2013 
0 TALLAHASSF5 OFFICF. 
THE TOWLE HOUSE 
517 NORTH CALHOUN STREET 
TALLAHASSEE, FL 32301-1231 
VIA E-MAIL ONLY: summaryAmediationinc.com 
Alvin Capp, Esquire 
Mediation, Inc. 
Regions Financial Tower 
1555 Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard, Suite 600 
West Palm Beach, FL 33401 
Re: Edwards, Bradley adv. Epstein 
Our File No.: 291874 
Dear Mr. Capp: 
Despite the total absence of competent evidence to demonstrate that Bradley Edwards 
participated in any fraud against Jeffrey Epstein, and in the face of uncontrovertible 
evidence demonstrating the propriety of every aspect of Edwards' involvement in the 
prosecution of legitimate claims against Epstein, Epstein sued Bradley Edwards. 
Epstein sexually abused three clients of Edwards — L.M., E.W., and Jane Doe — and 
Edwards properly and successfully represented them in a civil action against Epstein. 
Nothing in Edwards's capable and competent representation of his clients provided 
any basis for a civil lawsuit against him, but the facts did not deter Epstein from 
engaging in what was a blatant effort to extort Bradley Edwards, utilizing the nearly 
limitless resources of a vengeful opponent. The extortion failed but the vengeful 
assault by Epstein continues. 
Epstein's action against Edwards essentially alleged that Epstein was damaged by 
Edwards, acting in concert with Scott Rothstein (President of the Rothstein Rosenfeldt 
Adler law firm ("RRA") where Edwards worked for a short period of time). Epstein 
alleged that Edwards joined Rothstein in the abusive prosecution of sexual assault 
cases against Epstein to "pump" the cases to Ponzi scheme investors. As described by 
Epstein, investor victims were told by Rothstein that three minor girls who were 
sexually assaulted by Epstein: LM., E.W., and Jane Doe were to be paid up-front 
money to prevent those girls from settling their civil cases against Epstein. In 
Epstein's view, these child sexual assault cases had "minimal value" (Complaint & 
W1NW.SEARCYLAW.COM 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029315 
Thursday, September 12, 2013 
Page 2 
42(h)), and Edwards's refusal to force his clients to accept modest settlement offers 
was claimed to breach some duty that Edwards owed to Epstein. Interestingly, Epstein 
never states that he actually made any settlement offers. Even more interestingly, 
Epstein was never able to explain how a scheme to defraud third party investors ever 
caused any legally cognizable damage to Epstein himself. 
The supposed "proof' of the Complaint's allegations against Edwards included 
Edwards's alleged contacts with the media, his attempts to obtain discovery from 
high-profile persons with whom Epstein socialized, and use of "ridiculously 
inflammatory" language in arguments in court. Remarkably, Epstein filed such 
allegations against Edwards despite the fact that Epstein had sexually abused each of 
Edwards's clients and others while they were minors. Indeed, in discovery Epstein has 
asserted his Fifth Amendment privilege rather than answer questions about the extent 
of the sexual abuse of his many victims. Even more remarkably, after filing his suit 
against Edwards, Epstein settled the three cases Edwards handled for an amount that 
Epstein insisted be kept confidential. Without violating the strict confidentiality terms 
required by Epstein, the cases did not settle for the "minimal value" that Epstein 
suggested in his Complaint. 
Because Epstein elected to hide behind the shield of his right against self incrimination 
to preclude his disclosing any relevant information about the criminal activity at the 
center of his claims, he was barred from prosecuting his case against Edwards. Under 
the well-established "sword and shield" doctrine, Epstein could not seek damages 
from Edwards while at the same time asserting a Fifth Amendment privilege to block 
relevant discovery. Here, Epstein tried to do precisely what the "well settled" law 
forbids. Specifically, he tried to obtain "affirmative relief' — i.e., forcing Edwards to 
pay money damages — while simultaneously precluding Edwards from obtaining 
legitimate discovery at the heart of the allegations that form the basis for the relief 
Epstein was seeking. As recounted more fully in the statement of undisputed facts 
filed in support of Edwards' Motion for Summary Judgment, Epstein has refused to 
answer such basic questions about his lawsuit as: 
• "Specifically what are the allegations against you which you contend Mr. 
Edwards ginned up?" 
o "Well, which of Mr. Edwards' cases do you contend were fabricated?" 
• "Is there anything in L.M.'s Complaint that was filed against you in September 
of 2008 which you contend to be false?" 
• "I would like to know whether you ever had any physical contact with the 
person referred to as Jane Doe in that [federal] complaint?" 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029316 
Thursday, September 12, 2013 
Page 3 
• "Did you ever have any physical contact with E.W.?" 
"What is the actual value that you contend the claim of E.W. against you has?" 
The matters addressed in these questions were the central focus of Epstein's claims 
against Edwards. Epstein's refusal to answer these and literally every other 
substantive question put to him in discovery deprived Edwards of even a basic 
understanding of the evidence alleged to support claims against him and substantiated 
Edwards' position that no such evidence ever existed. Epstein's case was doomed to 
fail on the basis of the "sword and shield" doctrine alone. But other grounds were 
equally and independently fatal to Epstein's attempt to use the legal system to scare 
Edwards into submission. 
All of Edwards' conduct in the prosecution of valid claims against Epstein was 
protected by the absolute bar of the litigation privilege. 
And most fundamentally, Epstein's claims against Edwards were not only unsupported 
by but also directly contradicted by all of the record evidence. From the beginning, 
Edwards diligently represented three victims of sexual assaults perpetrated by Epstein. 
Each and every one of Edwards's litigation decisions was grounded in proper 
litigation judgment about the need to pursue effective discovery against Epstein, 
particularly in the face of Epstein's stonewalling tactics. Edwards's successful 
representation finally forced Epstein to settle and pay appropriate damages. Effective 
and proper representation of child victims who have been repeatedly sexually 
assaulted cannot form the basis of a separate, "satellite" lawsuit, and therefore 
Edwards was entitled to summary judgment on those grounds as well. 
Facing these insurmountable obstacles, on the eve of the scheduled hearing on 
Edwards' Motion for Summary Judgment, Epstein dismissed all of his claims against 
Edwards. 
Put simply, Epstein made allegations that he knew were baseless, that he never 
intended to try to support, and that were precluded as a matter of well-established law. 
His lawsuit was merely a desperate measure by a serial pedophile to prevent being 
held accountable for repeatedly sexually abusing minor females. Epstein's ulterior 
motives in filing and prosecuting his lawsuit are blatantly obvious. Epstein's behavior 
is another clear demonstration that he feels he lives above the law and that because of 
his wealth he can manipulate the system and pay for lawyers to do his dirty work - 
even to the extent of having them assert baseless claims against other members of the 
Florida Bar. Epstein's Complaint against Edwards was nothing short of a far-fetched, 
fictional fairy-tale with absolutely no evidence whatsoever to support his preposterous 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029317 
Thursday, September 12, 2013 
Page 4 
claims. It was his last ditch effort to escape the public disclosure by Edwards and his 
clients of the nature, extent, and sordid details of Epstein's life as a serial child 
molester. 
The bulk of Epstein's claims against Edwards hinge on the premise that Edwards was 
involved in a Ponzi scheme run by Scott Rothstein. Broad allegations of wrongdoing 
on the part of Edwards were scattered willy-nilly throughout the complaint. None of 
the allegations provided any substance as to how Edwards actually assisted the Ponzi 
scheme, and allegations that he "knew or should have known" of its existence all 
failed for one straightforward reason: Edwards was simply not involved in any Ponzi 
scheme. He provided sworn testimony and an affidavit in support of that assertion, 
and there was not (and could never be) any contrary evidence. 
Edwards was deposed at length in this case. As his deposition makes crystal clear, he 
had no knowledge of any fraudulent activity in which Scott Rothstein may have been 
involved. See, e.g., Edwards Depo. at 301-02 (Q: " . . . [W]ere you aware that Scott 
Rothstein was trying to market Epstein cases . . . ?" A: "No."). 
Edwards supplemented his deposition answers with an extremely detailed Affidavit 
that declared in no uncertain terms his lack of involvement in any fraud perpetrated by 
Rothstein. In view of this clear evidence rebutting all allegations against him, Epstein 
was required to "produce counter-evidence establishing a genuine issue of material 
fact." Epstein could not meet this obligation. Indeed, when asked at his deposition 
whether he had any evidence of Edwards's involvement, Epstein declined to answer, 
purportedly on attorney-client privilege grounds: 
Q. I want to know whether you have any knowledge of evidence that 
Bradley Edwards personally ever participated in devising a plan 
through which were sold purported confidential assignments of a 
structured payout settlement? . . . 
A. I'd like to answer that question by saying that the newspapers have 
reported that his firm was engaged in fraudulent structured settlements 
in order to fleece unsuspecting Florida investors. With respect to my 
personal knowledge, I'm unfortunately going to, today, but I look 
forward to at some point being able to disclose it, today I'm going to 
have to assert the attorney/client privilege. 
Epstein alleged that Edwards somehow improperly enhanced the value of the three 
civil cases he had filed against Epstein. Edwards represented three young women — 
L.M., E.W., and Jane Doe — by filing civil suits against Epstein for his sexual abuse of 
them while they were minors. Epstein purported to find a cause of action for this by 
alleging that Edwards somehow was involved in "pumping' these three cases to 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029318 
Thursday, September 12, 2013 
Page 5 
investors." Edwards could not have possibly "pumped" the cases to investors when he 
never participated in any communication with investors. However, Epstein's 
"pumping" claims fail for an even more basic reason: Edwards was entitled — indeed 
ethically obligated as an attorney — to secure the maximum recovery for his clients 
during the course of his legal representation. As is well known, lals an advocate, a 
lawyer zealously asserts the client's position under the rules of the adversary system." 
Fla. Rules of Prof. Conduct, Preamble. Edwards therefore was required to pursue 
(unless otherwise instructed by his clients) a maximum recovery against Epstein. 
Edwards, therefore, could never be liable for doing something that his ethical duties as 
an attorney required. In a further effort to harass Edwards, Epstein also filed a bar 
complaint with the Florida Bar against Edwards. The Florida Bar dismissed the 
complaint. 
Another reason that Epstein's claims that Edwards was "pumping" cases for investors 
fails is that Edwards filed all three cases almost a year before he was hired by RRA or 
even knew of Scott Rothstein. Epstein makes allegations that the complaints 
contained sensational allegations for the purposes of luring investors; however, 
language in the complaints remained virtually unchanged from the first filing in 2008 
and overwhelming evidence supports the conclusion that all of the facts alleged by 
Edwards in the complaints were true. 
Epstein ultimately paid to settle all three of the cases Edwards filed against him for 
more money than he paid to settle any of the other claims against him. At Epstein's 
request, the terms of the settlement were kept confidential. Epstein chose to make this 
payment as the result of a federal court ordered mediation process, which he himself 
sought (over the objection of Jane Doe, Edwards' client in federal court) in an effort to 
resolve the case. Notably, Epstein sought this settlement conference — and ultimately 
made his payments as a result of that conference - in July 2010, more than seven 
months after he filed this lawsuit against Edwards. Accordingly, Epstein could not 
have been the victim of any scheme to "pump" the cases against him, because he 
never paid to settle the cases until well after Edwards had left RRA, after Edwards had 
severed all connection with Scott Rothstein (December 2009), and well after the 
details of Rothstein's Ponzi scheme had been widely publicized. 
In addition, if Epstein had thought that there was some improper coercion involved in, 
for example, Jane Doe's case, his remedy was to raise the matter before Federal 
District Court Judge Kenneth A. Marra who was presiding over the matter. Far from 
raising any such claim, Epstein simply chose to settle that case. He was therefore 
barred by the doctrine of res judicata from somehow re-litigating what happened in 
(for example) the Jane Doe case. The doctrine of res judicata makes a judgment on 
the merits conclusive 'not only as to every matter which was offered and received to 
sustain or defeat the claim, but as to every other matter which might with propriety 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029319 
Thursday, September 12, 2013 
Page 6 
have been litigated and determined in that action. Obviously, any question of 
improper "pumping" of a particular case could have been resolved in that very case 
rather than re-litigated in satellite litigation. 
Epstein also alleged that Edwards improperly pursued discovery from some of 
Epstein's close friends. Such discovery, Epstein claimed, was improper because 
Edwards knew that these individuals lacked any discoverable information about the 
sexual assault cases against Epstein. Each of the friends of Epstein were and are 
reasonably believed to possess discoverable information. The undisputed facts show 
the following with regard to each of the persons identified in Epstein's complaint of 
improper targets of discovery: 
• With regard to Donald Trump, Edwards had sound legal basis for believing 
Mr. Trump had relevant and discoverable information. See Statement of 
Undisputed Facts filed in support of Edwards' Motion for Summary Judgment. 
With regard to Alan Dershovvitz (Harvard Law Professor), Edwards had sound 
legal basis for believing Mr. Dershowitz had relevant and discoverable 
information. See Statement of Undisputed Facts. 
With regard to former President Bill Clinton, Edwards had sound legal basis 
for believing former President Clinton had relevant and discoverable 
information. See Statement of Undisputed Facts. 
• With regard to former Sony Record executive Tommy Mottola, Edwards was 
not the attorney that noticed Mr. Mottola's deposition. See Statement of 
Undisputed Facts. 
• With regard to illusionist David Copperfield, Edwards had sound legal basis 
for believing Mr. Copperfield had relevant and discoverable information. See 
Statement of Undisputed Facts. 
• With regard to former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, Edwards had 
sound legal basis for naming Former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson 
on his witness list. See Statement of Undisputed Facts. 
The anticipated trial of this lawsuit will require Edwards to testify about the propriety 
of his litigation decisions and to explain the bases for his good faith belief that each of 
the identified individuals had relevant information regarding Epstein's serial 
molestations. The rules of discovery themselves provide that a deposition need only 
be "reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." Fla. R. 
Civ. P. 1.280(b), and all of the challenged depositions clearly met that standard. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029320 
Thursday, September 12, 2013 
Page 7 
Moreover, the discovery that Edwards pursued has to be considered against the 
backdrop of Epstein's obstructionist tactics. In both this case and all other cases filed 
against him, Epstein asserted his Fifth Amendment privilege rather than answer any 
substantive questions. Epstein also helped secure attorneys for his household staff 
who assisted in the process of recruiting the minor girls, and those staff members in 
turn also asserted their Fifth Amendment rights rather than explain what happened 
behind closed doors in Epstein's mansion in West Palm Beach. It is against this 
backdrop that Edwards followed up on one of the only remaining lines of inquiry open 
to him: discovery aimed at those of Epstein's friends reasonably believed to have been 
in a position to corroborate the fact that Epstein was sexually abusing young girls. 
In the context of the sexual assault cases that Edwards had filed against Epstein, any 
act of sexual abuse had undeniable relevance to the case — even acts of abuse Epstein 
committed against minor girls other than L.M., E.W., or Jane Doe. Both federal and 
state evidence rules made acts of child abuse against other girls admissible in the 
plaintiff's case in chief as proof of "modus operandi" or "motive" or "common 
scheme or plan." The anxiously anticipated trial of this case will present the first full 
disclosure of the evidence of the extent of Epstein's criminal conduct in explanation of 
the reason for and the extent of his malice toward Bradley Edwards. 
Epstein's repeated invocations of the Fifth Amendment raise adverse inferences 
against him that leave no possibility that a reasonable factfinder could have ever 
reached a verdict in his favor. Instead, a reasonable finder of fact could only find that 
Epstein was a serial molester of children who was being held accountable through 
legitimate suits brought by Edwards and others on behalf of the minor girls that 
Epstein victimized. 
"[I]t is well-settled that the Fifth Amendment does not forbid adverse inferences 
against parties to civil actions when they refuse to testify in response to probative 
evidence offered against them." Baxter v. Palmigiano, 425 U.S. 308, 318 (1976); 
accord Vasquez v. State, 777 So.2d 1200, 1203 (Fla. App. 2001). The reason for this 
rule "is both logical and utilitarian. A party may not trample upon the rights of others 
and then escape the consequences by invoking a constitutional privilege — at least not 
in a civil setting." Fraser v. Security and Inv. Corp., 615 So.2d 841, 842 (Fla. 4th Dist. 
Ct. App. 1993). And, in the proper circumstances, "Silence is often evidence of the 
most persuasive character." Fraser v. Security and Inv. Corp., 615 So.2d 841, 
842 (Fla. 4th Dist. Ct. App. 1993) (quoting United States ex rel. Bilokumsky v. Tod, 
263 U.S. 149, 153-154 (1923) (Brandeis, J.). 
In the circumstances of this case, a reasonable finder of fact would have "evidence of 
the most persuasive character" from Epstein's repeated refusal to answer questions 
propounded to him. To provide but a few examples, here are questions that Epstein 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029321 
Thursday, September 12, 2013 
Page 8 
refused to answer and the reasonable inference that a reasonable finder of fact would 
draw: 
• Question not answered: "Specifically what are the allegations against you 
which you contend Mr. Edwards ginned up?" Reasonable inference: No 
allegations against Epstein were ginned up. 
• Question not answered: "Well, which of Mr. Edwards' cases do you contend 
were fabricated?" Reasonable inference: No cases filed by Edwards against 
Epstein were fabricated. 
• Question not answered: "Did sexual assaults ever take place on a private 
airplane on which you were a passenger?" Reasonable inference: Epstein was 
on a private airplane while sexual assaults were taking place. 
• Question not answered: "How many minors have you procured for 
prostitution?" Reasonable inference: Epstein has procured multiple minors for 
prostitution. 
• Question not answered: "Is there anything in L.M.'s Complaint that was filed 
against you in September of 2008 which you contend to be false?" Reasonable 
inference: Nothing in L.M.'s complaint filed in September of 2008 was false — 
i.e., as alleged in L.M.'s complaint, Epstein repeatedly sexually assaulted her 
while she was a minor and she was entitled to substantial compensatory and 
punitive damages as a result. 
• Question not answered: "I would like to know whether you ever had any 
physical contact with the person referred to as Jane Doe in that [federal] 
complaint?" Reasonable inference: Epstein had physical contact with minor 
Jane Doe as alleged in her federal complaint. 
Question not answered: "Did you ever have any physical contact with E.W.?" 
Reasonable inference: Epstein had physical contact with minor E.W. as 
alleged in her complaint. 
• Question not answered: "What is the actual value that you contend the claim 
of E.W. against you has?" Reasonable inference: E.W.'s claim against 
Epstein had substantial actual value. 
Given all of the fatal flaws that infected Epstein's claims against Edwards from the 
outset and the overwhelming evidence that the motivation behind the filing of those 
claims was exclusively extortion and malice, Epstein's only hope of avoiding the full 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029322 
Thursday, September 12, 2013 
Page 9 
dramatic exposure of his life of perversion is to attempt to hide behind the erroneous 
interpretation of the litigation privilege. That effort has been rejected repeatedly by 
the trial court, and there is no reason to anticipate any change in that well-reasoned 
rejection. In addition, as will be privately explained at mediation, Epstein's day of 
public reckoning is inevitable. 
Cc: Bradley Edwards, Esquire 
Jack A. Goldberger, Esquire 
Fred Haddad, Esquire 
Marc S. Nurik, Esquire 
Tonj a Haddad Coleman, Esquire 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029323 
