From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Paul Morris 
7/2/2019 4:24:45 PM 
jeevacation@gmail.com 
Capital Market Outlook 
Capital Market Outlook 
Chief Investment Office 
Capital Market Outlook from our Chief Investment Office 
delivers a balanced mix of macroeconomic insights and 
global market views, with in-depth analysis from the CIO's 
investment strategists and analysts. It offers timely 
commentary that can help you navigate markets and take 
advantage of emerging trends across the globe. 
This week's topics are: 
• Macro Strategy: Why 2%? — While Federal 
Reserve policy has always been focused on the goal of 
price stability, the specific meaning of price stability has 
been refined over the years from a general and non-
specified, vague concept to the current very specific 
quantitative definition of a 2% long-run average for the 
personal consumption expenditures deflator. We describe 
the evolution and rationale for the more specific target. 
• Global Market View: Global R&D: From Apollo, 
to Apple, to Alibaba? — The recent unfolding tech cold 
war between the U.S. and China will likely only accelerate 
the pace of spending on global research and development 
as the two parties vie for technological supremacy. China 
faces significant technological hurdles, while the U.S. 
needs to rethink and rebalance the role of public and 
private sector research and development spending. 
• Thought of the Week: A Golden Diversifier — 
Gold's recent outperformance versus the U.S. dollar has 
potentially triggered a bullish technical pattern. In our 
Paul Morris 
Managing Director 
Private Wealth Manager 
Merrill Private Wealth Management 
ONE BRYANT PARK 
STE 28TH FLOOR 
NEW YORK, NY 10036 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016801 
view, the market's expectation for looser monetary policy 
together with recent comments by President Trump 
implying a desire for a weaker greenback have been 
tailwinds. In addition to these drivers, we view gold as an 
appealing diversifier in light of elevated geopolitical risks. 
However, a comprehensive trade deal between the U.S. 
and China would likely constitute a more significant 
headwind for the yellow metal. 
Find out more in this edition of Capital Market Outlook, 
and feel free to contact us with any questions you have 
about our market views. 
Sincerely, 
Paul 
This material was prepared by the Chief Investment Office (CIO) and is not a publication of BofA Merrill 
Lynch Global Research. The views expressed are those of the CIO only and are subject to change. This 
information should not be construed as investment advice. It is presented for information purposes only 
and is not intended to be either a specific offer by any Merrill or Bank of America entity to sell or 
provide, or a specific invitation for a consumer to apply for, any particular retail financial product or 
service that may be available. 
Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM) is a division of Bank of America Corporation. The 
Chief Investment Office, which provides investment strategies, due diligence, portfolio construction 
guidance and wealth management solutions for GWIM clients, is part of the Investment Solutions Group 
(ISG) of GWIM. 
Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal. Past performance is no guarantee of 
future results. 
All recommendations must be considered in the context of an individual investor's goals, time horizon, 
liquidity needs and risk tolerance. Not all recommendations will be suitable for all investors. 
The risk that exchange rate fluctuations will reduce the value of returns. This arises when investments 
denominated in foreign currencies are purchased. 
Investments have varying degrees of risk. Some of the risks involved with equity securities include the 
possibility that the value of the stocks may fluctuate in response to events specific to the companies or 
markets, as well as economic, political or social events in the U.S. or abroad. Investments in foreign 
securities involve special risks, including foreign currency risk and the possibility of substantial volatility 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016802 
due to adverse political, economic or other developments. These risks are magnified for investments 
made in emerging markets. Investments in a certain industry or sector may pose additional risk due to 
lack of diversification and sector concentration. There are special risks associated with an investment in 
commodities, including market price fluctuations, regulatory changes, interest rate changes, credit risk, 
economic changes and the impact of adverse political or financial factors. 
Bank of America, Merrill, their affiliates, and advisors do not provide legal, tax, or accounting advice. 
Clients should consult their legal and/or tax advisors before making any financial decisions. 
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (also referred to as "MLPF&S" or "Merrill") makes 
available certain investment products sponsored, managed, distributed or provided by companies that 
are affiliates of Bank of America Corporation ("BofA Corp."). MLPF&S is a registered broker-dealer, 
registered investment adviser, Member SIPC and a wholly owned subsidiary of BofA Corp. 
Merrill Private Wealth Management is a division of MLPF&S that offers a broad array of personalized 
wealth management products and services. Both brokerage and investment advisory services (including 
financial planning) are offered by the Private Wealth Advisors through MLPF&S. The nature and degree 
of advice and assistance provided, the fees charged, and client rights and Merrill's obligations will differ 
among these services. 
The banking, credit and trust services sold by Merrill's Private Wealth Advisors are offered by licensed 
banks and trust companies, including Bank of America, N.A., Member FDIC, and other affiliated banks. 
Banking products are provided by Bank of America, N.A., and affiliated banks, Members FDIC and wholly 
owned subsidiaries of BofA Corp. 
Investment products: 
Are Not FDIC Insured 	Are Not Bank Guaranteed 	May Lose Value 
The Bull Symbol and Merrill Lynch are trademarks of Bank of America Corporation. 
This report may not be reproduced or distributed without prior written consent. 
0 2019 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved. I ARKQNX7F I 07/2019 
Site Map 4 Privacy & Security 0. Legal Information MLPF&S Financial Statement 0 PBIG.com  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 016803 
