From: Boris Nikolic 
Sent: 5/7/2012 11:21:03 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein (jeeyacation@gmail.com) [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: FW: Tix for Jeffrey 
Attachments: image003.jpg; Auktionsblatt.pdf; TXT AIDS Solidarity Gala_E.pdf 
Importance: High 
It was not easy as people from LifeBall are very difficult. But I go it (they even now approved you - they needed to do a 
background check believe it or not! — as on that dinner will be president of Austria, Clinton etc) for two tickets — for you 
and your guest for a price that you do not need to buy a table (as they do not sell individual seats). 
Guy below is a good friend and he is a CEO of amFAR (amFAR has a joined dinner) — so he helped. 
The nice thing about these tickets is that they are the most VIP. It includes reception, dinner, gala and after all party 
access. 
I have the same ones (through Bill). 
I also got two additional for you but it turns out that they are not the same level so I reached to Kevin for help. 
The price is 2,500Euro per ticket (this is very reduced price as I think the regular one for this is 15K and it is hard to get 
it). They will need an email from someone from your office and name a your guest asap. 
The plan for for Vienna I am sending you with my next email! 
Boris 
From: Kevin Frost [mailto 
Sent: Monday, May 07, 2012 6:39 AM 
To: Boris Nikolic 
Subject: Tix for Jeffrey 
Importance: High 
Boris: 
Here is the information sheet for Jeffrey to buy tickets. Tell him to use my name and the name of Magdalena Schuster 
on the email below. They've already approved him to buy tickets to Lifeball and the Gala dinner which happens right 
before the ball. I hope you guys are all planning to attend the dinner as well. You can tell your friend Jeffrey that he 
should buy the Mini car for me as a thank you. =) 
I'm getting in to Vienna on Friday afternoon. Let's get together on Friday night. 
See you soon, 
Kevin 
Kevin Robert Frost 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028773 
Chief Executive Officer 
amfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research 
120 Wall Street, 13th Floor 
New York, NY 10005 
212.806.1633 
From: Magdalena Schuster [mailto: 
Sent: Thursday, May 03, 2012 1:04 PM 
To: Kevin Frost 
Subject: AW: AW: NY plane 
Hi Kevin, 
attached please find an information sheet about the AIDS Solidarity Gala — I am sure Jeffrey will very much enjoy the 
Gala. 
I've also included the auction items at the Gala for your and Jeffrey's information. 
Let me know how I can be of further assistance. 
All the best, 
Lena 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028774 
