From: Noam Chomsky 
Sent: 9/10/2015 5:52:30 PM 
To: Lawrence Krauss [ 
CC: 
Subject: RE: an article you may both hate. or like. 
Attachments: image001.png 
Importance: High 
; jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Thanks for sending. A wide area of agreement, but not total. 
On confronting dogma, I of course agree — though in my opinion the secular religions — nationalist fanaticism, etc. — are 
much more dangerous. And if some find rational discussion offensive — as, for example, mainstream academics find 
dismantling myths of "American exceptionalism" or "Israeli self-defense" or Obama's mass murder campaign, etc., 
offensive — so be it. 
But I don't see why that should extend to ridicule. That includes astrologists. Astronomers can refute astrology, while 
recognizing that perfectly honest and deluded people may believe it and should be treated with respect, while their 
beliefs are confronted with evidence. I also don't see why we should ridicule religious dogma, just as I don't think we 
should ridicule the much more pernicious secular dogmas. Rather, we should respond to irrational belief with argument 
and evidence, while recognizing that their advocates (like most of the intellectual world in the case of secular dogma) 
are people who we should be responding to but without ridiculing them. It may be hard sometimes. For example, when 
the icon and founding father of sober non-sentimental Realism in International Affairs informs us that the US, unlike 
other countries, has a "transcendental purpose," and the fact that it constantly acts in contradiction to its purpose 
doesn't matter because the facts are just "abuse of history" while real history is "the evidence of history as our minds 
reflect it," then it's hard to avoid ridicule. But we should. There's no point ridiculing virtually the entire IR profession 
and the major journals, even though such extraordinary irrationality leads to major human disasters. 
On Davis, I frankly think that's a non-issue. If she decides she cannot do her job as the conditions of employment 
require (including following the law), then she can quit and look for another job. As in any other such case. 
Noam 
From: Lawrence Krauss [mailto 
Sent: Thursday, September 10, 2015 1:51 AM 
To: Noam Chomsky jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Subject: an article you may both hate. or like. 
hope all is well. 
Lawrence 
http://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/all-scientists-should-be-militant-atheists 
Lawrence M. Krauss 
Director, The Origins Project at ASU 
Co-Director, Cosmology Initiative 
Foundation Professor 
School of Earth & Space Exploration and Physics Department 
Arizona State University,P.O. Box 871404, Tempe, AZ 85287-1404 
Research Office: , Assistant 
Origins Office 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028931 
origins.asu.edu I twitter.com/Ikraussl I krauss.faculty.asu.edu 
Pal OrigKI.Eci 
ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028932 
