Date: Wednesday, December 27 2017 05:02 PM 
Subject: (BN) Leon Black's Tax-Overhaul Dilemma Could Alter Wall Street M 
From: Glenn Dubin (DUBIN & COMPANY LP) 
To: undisclosed-recipients:; 
BCC: jeevacation@gmail.com; 
> 
(BN) Leon Black's Tax-Overhaul Dilemma Could Alter Wall Street M 
odel 
Leon Black's Tax-Overhaul Dilemma Could Alter Wall Street Model 
2017-12-27 11:00:00.2 GMT 
By Simone Foxman and David Carey 
(Bloomberg) -- Leon Black recently posed a question whose 
answer will determine how profitable the new U.S. tax regime 
could make Wall Street firms like his Apollo Global Management 
LLC. 
Publicly traded partnerships, such as Apollo, are taxed 
differently than corporations. So should Apollo take advantage 
of the overhauled tax rules to pay less in taxes? Or should it 
use this chance to change to an Inc. from an LLC, which would 
increase its tax bill but allow it to attract investments from 
mutual funds that have previously been out of reach? 
"We're still analyzing," Black told the Goldman Sachs U.S. 
Financial Services Conference Dec. 6. "It's an uncertain 
outcome." 
Either way, it's most likely a money-making outcome. The 
tax changes are a boon for private equity firms such as Apollo, 
where Black is chief executive officer. The new lower corporate 
rate has made it possible for bigger publicly traded 
partnerships to consider the change. As it is, management fees, 
which typically account for 30 percent or more of their 
earnings, are already taxed at the corporate rate. That will 
drop. The legislation scarcely touched the 23.8 percent rate 
paid on incentive fees, also called carried interest, which 
incur no additional levy when paid out to shareholders. 
Double Tax 
If the partnerships converted to corporations, the 
incentive fees would be hit with a second layer of tax when 
they're paid out. That would push the combined tax rate on 
incentive income paid out as dividends to nearly 40 percent, 
according to Peter Furci, co-chair of Debevoise & Plimpton's 
global tax practice. 
But it would also allow the newly minted corporations 
access to indexes, and therefore the mutual-fund and ETF 
markets. About $2.2 trillion follows the S&P 500 Index, 
according to its website. As of June, $122.6 billion in assets 
tracked the Russell 2000 Index, the best-known small-cap U.S. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023564 
stock index, and there was $1.1 trillion bet on Russell U.S. 
indexes overall, according to the company. 
The bigger universe of investors would likely boost the 
trading multiples of the firms' stocks. It's unclear how big the 
economic benefit of increased ownership would be, so the 
question is whether it would make up for the higher taxes. 
"There's no way to say how much multiple expansion you 
could get by converting," said Gerald O'Hara, who follows 
private equity firms for Jefferies Group. "That's the question 
here that I think these firms are wrestling with." 
Tax Complexity 
One of the main reasons the funds have stayed away from 
private equity managers is tax complexity. Investors in typical 
stocks receive a Form 1099, a straightforward document that 
shows interest and dividends on investments at the end of each 
year. Owners of publicly traded private equity firms' stock get 
the Schedule K-1 instead. The K-1 shows their share of the 
partnership's interest, which determines how much the income is 
taxed. It's a headache, O'Hara said. Plus, firms can be 
inconsistent on the time of year they send out the forms, and 
the process of plugging in the numbers on a Schedule K-1 isn't 
as simple as it is for other kinds of income. 
So asset managers, which offer options for many 401(k) 
investors, avoid buying shares of private equity firms. 
On the campaign trail last year, President Donald Trump 
said he wasn't a fan of Wall Street "paper pushers" like hedge 
fund managers. He pledged to raise the tax rate on carried 
interest. The new tax law keeps it unchanged for investments 
held at least three years. 
Hamilton Lane 
Proponents of conversion to corporations point to Hamilton 
Lane Inc., an alternative-investment manager and pension-fund 
consultant that's a corporation and not a publicly traded 
partnership. The $1.9 billion company, which went public earlier 
this year, is now included in dozens of S&P, Russell and 
WisdomTree Investments Inc. indexes. Hamilton Lane shares have 
about doubled since the initial public offering. 
Ares Management LP, created by former Apollo executives, is 
the most likely of its peers to make the jump, according to 
analysts at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Much of its revenue 
comes from management fees, so becoming a corporation would hurt 
its after-tax earnings relatively little. 
Bill Mendel of Mendel Communications, a spokesman for Ares, 
said the firm is studying the situation. Apollo spokesman 
Charles Zehren of Rubenstein Associates declined to comment. 
When Black spoke to the Goldman Sachs conference, he said 
he was certain of one thing: None of the big publicly traded 
partnerships wanted to be first to undergo conversion. 
"If somebody does go first and their stock doesn't move up, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023565 
then you'll know that was a pretty dumb decision," he said. If, 
on the other hand, the "stock does great, then all of us may 
have converted" in two or three years. 
--With assistance from Ben Steverman and Carolina Wilson. 
To contact the reporters on this story: 
Simone Foxman in New York at sfoxman4@bloomberg.net; 
David Carey in New York at dcarey13@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editors responsible for this story: 
Margaret Collins at mcollins45@bloomberg.net; 
Elizabeth Fournier at efournier5@bloomberg.net 
Bob Ivry 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023566 
