From: 
Sent: 2/17/2011 6:19:01 PM 
To: jeevacation@gmail.com 
Subject: Trump & Patricia Kluge 
Importance: High 
Trump in talks to buy socialite Kluge's Charlottesville vineyard 
and estate 
By Annie Gowen and Steve Yanda 
Washington Post Staff Writers 
Wednesday, February 16, 2011; 10:47 PM 
Embattled Virginia socialite and winemaker Patricia Kluge may have found a white knight to preserve her Charlottesville 
empire - real estate mogul Donald Trump. 
Trump's business adviser said Wednesday that Trump was negotiating to buy not only Kluge's grand estate, Albemarle 
House, which a bank foreclosed on in January, but all of Kluge's former real estate holdings outside Charlottesville near 
Thomas Jefferson's Monticello estate. 
Those include 200 acres of land adjacent to the estate that once had a nine-hole golf course designed by Arnold Palmer, 
a 900-acre vineyard and a failed real estate development where Kluge had planned to market luxury "farmettes" with their 
own grapevines. 
Leslie Goldman, a Washington-based adviser to Trump, said it would be "premature to speculate" what Trump had 
planned for the area, but said the land has "significant historical value and potential for development." 
"Obviously, the more acreage, the more pieces you acquire, the more possibilities there are," he said. 
Trump has already made forays into Virginia real estate. In 2009, he purchased a 600-acre golf club along the Potomac 
River in Loudoun County and renamed it the Trump National Golf Club. He raised the ire of local environmentalists last 
summer after the club removed hundreds of trees that it claimed threatened the shoreline. 
Trump's representative appeared at a foreclosure auction of Kluge's large estate on the courthouse steps in downtown 
Charlottesville Wednesday morning, where a crowd of about 50 lawyers and curiosity seekers had gathered. 
In the past year, Kluge's travails have become well-known around Charlottesville, where over the last two decades the 
British-born socialite has cut a glamorous - and sometimes controversial - figure. 
In 1999 she founded what became a well-respected vineyard on land around her grand house, which she had received as 
part of a high-profile divorce settlement in 1990 from John Kluge, the late media mogul who was once the country's richest 
man. 
Kluge Estate Winery and Vineyard won accolades for sparkling wines - served at the White House and at Chelsea 
Clinton's wedding last summer - and a blended red called New World Red. Kluge and her third husband, retired IBM 
executive William Moses, worked to promote not only their own wine brand but the growing Virginia wine industry as a 
whole. 
But in the past two years, following some aggressive expansion of the winery and the failure of the housing development, 
Kluge fell upon hard times. Credit problems forced her to sell off her jewelry and extensive collection of art and antiques 
last year. She lost the vineyard at a foreclosure auction in December. 
Kluge had initially tried to sell Albemarle House - which the Sotheby's listing calls "one of the most important residences in 
the United States since the Golden Age" - for $100 million, but when no buyer came forward the price was ultimately 
slashed to $24 million. The eight-bedroom home has its own movie theater, wine grotto, swimming pool and helipad. 
At Wednesday's auction, Bank of America, Kluge's creditor, took full ownership of the property with a bid of $15.26 million. 
But Trump holds what the lawyers called a "right of first refusal" to buy the property at a later date. 
Kluge and Moses declined to comment directly on yesterday's events, but both have said they have been working 
diligently with their lawyers over the last several months to help save their business. 
The Trump organization had been working closely with Kluge and Moses on the deal, but how the partnership will play out 
- if they would have a future role at what would be Trump's vineyard - remained unclear Wednesday. 
"They've been working together with the objective of trying to preserve the vineyard for the benefit of the Virginia wine 
industry," Goldman said. "If it all comes together, it may provide them an opportunity to continue to stay involved in their 
life's work." 
Yanda reported from Charlottesville. Staff researcher Magda Jean-Louis also contributed to this report. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012684 
