Saturday, July 6, 2019 
OPINIONS 
TheVirgin Islands Daily News 11 
DAILY „:..„ NEWS 
Fuunck. Aug. 1,1930, by, Antonio Jur. and Ariel Me..., Sr. 
Published by Daily News Publishing Co., Inc. 
Archie Nohigian, Publisher ..1LoweDavls. Edkor 
The week in cartoons 
Government turns its back 
on Jeffrey Epstein's sex victims 
From the Sun Sett fine, FL Lauderdale. Fla 
Private Imvyers allowed sexual predator Jef-
frey Epstein to escape justice. Epstein's new 
defense team works for the federal gmerninent. 
The U.S. attorney for the northern district 
of Georgia claimed last week that even though 
prosecutors in South Florida broke the law 
%then they approml an outrageously light se, 
tence for Epstein, the deal must stand. B,ing 
Pak may not actually be on Epstein, legal team, 
but he has placed the Department of Justice on 
Epstein, side. 
an'agrerevIZI; EPstefillietlids a it'll:di; l'Pr=nYt 
inunp, former President Bill ulinton and 
Prince Andrew. Between 1998 and 2., E, 
stein recruited roughly three dozen underage 
girls — generally from poor and troubled fami-
lies—to his house in Palm Beach and sexually 
abused them. 
Epstein could have faced fethral sex traffick-
ing charges. He could have faced life in prison. 
Instead, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern Dis-
trict of Rorida —Alex Acosta, now Trump, la-
bor secretary — gave Epstein immunity on fed-
eral charges and allowed him to plead guilty to 
minor state charges. Then-Palm Beach County 
State Attorney Barry K.rischer went along. E, 
stein served 13 months in jail — he was allmked 
out about haff the time — and had to register 
with die state as a sex offender 
Prosecutors never told the victims about the 
agreement Until the signing of that othous 
agreement in 2007, the girls believed the FBI 
was still investigating 
The victims challenged the deal, which a, 
plied not j. to Epstein, but also to those who 
recruited the girls and joined in the abuse. Last 
February, U.S. District Judge Kenneth Matra 
ruled that prosecutors Ind violated the Crime 
Victims RigNs Act In criticizing the govern-
ment, Marra noted, "Epstein worked in concert 
with others to obtain minors not only f his 
own sexual gratification, but al. for the sental 
gratification of others." 
Mona then as. attomeys for both sides 
how he should correct this violation. Pak got 
the case because Acosta, old office had to 'r-
euse itself 
Pak, idea?The victims could "confer in pri-
vote" with prosecutors about the deal. Prosec, 
tots co. get more trsining in how to consuk 
with victims. But the deal stands. The victims 
don't deserve even an apology. 
Pak argues that the Crime Victims Rights 
Act contains no provision for undoing the no, 
prosecution agreement which is what the 
tims want. Doing so, Pak claims, could violate 
separstion of powers. 
That sounds lilce a waming to Marra — 
one he should ignore. Prosecutorial discretion 
doesn't maner when the action in question 
breaks the law. Even Pak acknowledges repeat-
ethy that it hopper.. 
The government, he writ., "should have 
communicated with the victims in a straight-
fonvard and transparent way,' Pak "regrets that 
the manner in which (the government) corn-
municated the resolution of the Epstein case to 
the victims .11 short.- Prosecutors could have 
communicated "more clearly and direcdy-
with die victims.-
None of that happened because Acosta, 
Krischer and Epstein's laAryers didn't want the 
deal to become p.c. The victims might have 
gone public with their complaints. Metha cov-
erage could have ki. the deal. 
Indeed, the record reflects the lengths to 
which Acosta and I.scher sought secrecy. 
Acosta thove from Miami to West Palm Beach 
to meet with Epstein attorney Jay Lefkowitz. 
Krischer wrote to a federal prosecutor, "Glad 
we could get this worked out for reasons I won't 
put in writing." 
We acknowledge that Pak di.1 create this 
mess. But his argument insults the public and 
reflects badly on die Department of Justice. 
"The resolution in this case,- Pak writes, 
"has led some to conclude that die government 
chose for impropernmasatons not to prosecute 
:IZ'1%iaa=1 ththe Iptrint:liPisaltsitvubestgreenn 
able to avoid talking about it for more than a 
decade. 
Acosta duc. the issue during his confir-
mation hearings in Apri12017. Last November, 
The Miami Herald tan a series on the case that 
featured interviews with victims who agreed to 
be identi.. Acosta refus. to comment. So 
did I.scher. 
Some might argue that the victims have re-
ceived money from civil lawsuits and should 
move on. But can there be a price for what E, 
stein and his accomplices did to these women? 
How ma, other victims are there? Why should 
a man who once faced a 52-page indictment be 
able to resume a life of privilege? 
"While the court cannot (mind the post." 
Pak argues, "the ten.. proposed 
by the goverment would 
give the victims a mean-
hmagvea theiPrc=tYes t 
heard and to un-
derstand, if not 
: icoctei ath ed ed xi; 
this matter-
Unaccept-
able is right. 
The victin, 
lawyers will 
file their re.-
t3iers o u Icc "I a 
Marra to void 
the agreement 
— This edito-
ria is the opin-
ion of the Stet 
Sentinel Editorial 
Board 
The Da i y News' opinions are expressed only in its editorials. 
The opinions expressed in columns, letters, cartoons and guest editorials are those of the particular author or artist 
- 
Some might 
argue that the 
victims have 
received money 
from civil 
lawsuits and 
sh OU Id move 
on. But can 
there be a price 
for what Jeffrey 
Epstein and his 
accomplices did 
to the. 
women? How 
many other 
victims are 
there? Why 
should a man 
who once faced 
a 52-page 
indictment be 
able to resume 
a life of 
privilege? 
