From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 12/2/2015 5:52:40 PM 
To: Lesley Groff 
Subject: Fwd: Poetry Update and Thank You 
Importance: High 
----------Forwarded message---------- 
From: Lisa New < 
Date: Wednesday, 2 December 2015 
Subject: Poetry Update and Thank You 
To: "jeffrey E." <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
That's ideal. Larry's away and I'll be working all day. I'm free any time. 
On Wed, Dec 2, 2015 at 10:31 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
I'm in Cambridge sat? 
On Wednesday, 2 December 2015, Lisa New < wrote: 
Dear Jeffrey, 
May I drop by before the New Year (perhaps on the 9th, or on the 17th or 18th?) to get your advice 
about my renewal of the Templeton campaign, and also my needs in the coming year for Poetry in 
America? Below is the letter I'm sending out to my friends and supporters, and at the bottom a 
message just for you.... 
-Lisa 
That you are receiving this letter means that you are among a special community of friends whose 
support— financial, moral, intellectual, logistical— has allowed my initiative, Poetry in America, to 
realize what seemed, a year ago, almost certainly too ambitious a vision. That vision was to 
produce the highest quality educational video on American poetry, creating a body of 
humanities content capable of reaching a broad community of learners: formal and informal, 
online and residential, young and old, American and international. And it was to 
begin— rapidly— to disseminate and distribute our work. 
Whether you donated to Poetry in America through Filmmaker's Collaborative (our 501c3 fiscal 
sponsor), through Harvard, or through WGBH; whether you appeared on camera or talked an 
elusive friend into appearing on camera to discuss a poem; whether you lent us your film crew, or 
provided overnight use of your hotel suite or apartment or of your whole skyscraper; whether you 
highlighted our work on your stage, or talked your colleagues into becoming corporate sponsors; 
whether you flew to Boston to install state-of-the-art editing and video storage equipment, or asked 
your children's school to let us film there; whether you encouraged your family foundation to take an 
interest in the project, or gave us a lesson in IP, in licensing, in the rudiments of finance, or of 
distribution; whether you praised, or gave timely, much-needed criticism— you enabled what we 
have done. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029242 
Here's what we have to report, and to show, a year later, thanks to your help. Links offer sneak 
peeks of works -in-progress across the full portfolio of Poetry in America projects. 
• The first eight-episode season of the public television series Poetry in America (a co-
production between WGBH, Emmy Award-winning filmmaker David Grubin, and my own new 
production company, Verse Video), is now fully funded and in production, with episodes featuring  
Bill Clinton, Herbie Hancock and Sonia Sanchez on Langston Hughes, Frank Gehry on Carl 
Sandburg, Katie Couric on Elizabeth Bishop, Nas on Whitman, and many more scheduled for 
nationwide launch in 2017. 
• Poetry in America's many initiatives to reach Middle and High School teachers and their 
students are taking root. Our first online course for Middle and High School Teachers, Poetry of 
the City, will launch this Spring with the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Companion 
materials to this course will be made available for free on PBS LearningMedia. This course is 
designed to meet the needs of English Language Arts and Social Studies teachers in the US and 
internationally. 
• We are eager to begin production of The Poetry of Earth, Sea, and Sky. Designed, too, for 
Middle and High School teachers, The Poetry of Earth, Sea, and Sky will draw English Language 
Arts instruction into dialogue with science, and will include extraordinary footage of the natural  
world, conversations with poets, scholars, and scientists as well as footage shot in class and in the 
field with great teachers. 
• A recent partnership with Greenwich Country Day School and the Success Academy Network 
of charter schools will provide a base for the production of a new collection of classroom-ready 
educational material on The Poetry of Art Sport, and Play. This collection will include discussions 
on poems filmed everywhere from sports fields to Broadway theaters, and will feature dancers, 
athletes, fashion designers, and more. 
• With a growing archive of footage capturing teachers and students reading American poems, 
we are eager to expand our reach and move into America's schools, disseminating, testing, 
and learning from teachers and students using our materials. We hope to be able to begin work 
evaluating the impact of poetry on literacy levels and character development and, eventually, to 
produce a full suite of materials that foster character development along with intellectual growth. 
Working closely with such partners as The Nantucket Project, Nautilus Magazine, The Aspen Ideas 
Festival, and The Big Think, and, of course, HarvardX, Harvard's provider of free open online 
courses, we are continuing to create rich educational media on poetry for adult learners and 
lifelong learners. These materials include short form videos such as this one on Robert Pinsky's  
"Shirt" (as featured in The New Yorker), and, this spring, the sixth module of the free seven-part 
Poetry in America MOOC, which has registrants in over 150 countries. 
Growing rapidly, and outpacing our current staff and infrastructure, Poetry in America has a 
fundraising goal this year of 2.5 million dollars to fund its expanding group of projects. We've taken 
a big step, hiring the design agency Threespot to help us develop our web presence. Our 
website— to launch early 2016— will eventually serve as an online hub for our TV show and 
educational projects. We hope you'll join us then for a virtual launch! 
Finally, Jeffrey, you have been such a wonderful supporter of my Poetry in America project. The 
Leon Black gift changed everything for me last year. It paid salaries for staff I desperately needed to 
complete projects (detail below), but first and foremost, it gave me leverage, enabling me to set 
down a solid Harvard base for my activities by giving the school something to point to: this public 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029243 
humanities project among the list of projects the Dean supports. The money did it: as soon as they 
heard about the gift, they took my project more seriously. Because of that gift, the Faculty of Arts 
and Sciences, which is space-stingy, found and rewired a studio space for me to house my video 
production operation and team. That gift woke up the Deans to the importance of Harvard's role in 
producing the highest quality humanities content for the WORLD, and not just for Harvard students. 
My main employee has half of her salary paid with these funds, and the foundation of our collection 
for PBS LeamingMedia is being made with this support. This gift represented one of the most 
consequential shifts of the last year, allowing me create content and launch projects this year that 
make future projects that much more likely. If I can keep this base sturdy at Harvard, refilling these 
coffers, I will be that much more able to keep working. 
I am also so grateful for the help you gave me in defining my project for Templeton, and, what help 
you have offered to give in bringing them around. I have, since Templeton turned me down, gotten 
funding to produce video on two of the poems I'd proposed to Templeton and to create, and test, 
that video in schools as I proposed. One of my partners in that project is Success Academy, where I 
could also expand my work with Templeton. And there are still other poems that may satisfy their 
character criteria more fully, including the third of the poems I'd originally proposed and that Joe 
Biden had agreed to discuss with me (on parenthood and humility). At this point, I'm gaining the 
platform and the name recognition to be an effective spokesperson for the foundation on building 
literacy and character in the schools. 
It really means a lot to me, all financial help aside, Jeffrey, that you are rooting for me and thinking 
about me. You push back a lot (as Larry does), and it's always annoying but I always learn. 
With abundant gratitude, 
Lisa 
Elisa New 
Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature 
Harvard University 
148 Barker Center 
12 Quincy Street 
Cambridge, MA 
02138 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029244 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
Elisa New 
Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature 
Harvard University 
148 Barker Center 
12 Quincy Street 
Cambridge, MA 
02138 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029245 
