From: 
Sent: 8/4/2015 10:23:22 PM 
Herb goodman Grant Seeger IMIIMMIIMi; 
To: Allen West • Rafael Bardaji Philip Kafka 
Lisa albert [LEMIIM]; janet kafka ]; James Ramsey 
ACT for America 11; john zouzelka-cell 
; Joel Dunn ]; ; Nate mcclain 
Neil anderson 
Henry hortenstine 
house • Bennett Schmidt 
Marcie brown 
; jeff epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com]; Michael Stechel 
buchholtz I Michael horowitz 
Bennet Greenwald 
; uri fouzailov 
rita hortenstine 
Forrest Miller - adj kearsarge 
• Val sherman 
]; Mark epstein 
Subject: Fw: The Iran Nuclear Deal 
Importance: High 
; taal safdie 
nate white 
Gary Gross 
Marshall Funk 
; michael 
Pis spent 2 minutes and watch this dennis prager video on iran deal. And then forward it if you agree. If not, I 
understand and just delete. Respectfully, terry 
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T 
From: Mike Cohen 
Date: Tue, 4 Aug 2015 22:00:42 +0000 
To: Terry Kafka ( 
Subject: FW: The Iran Nuclear Deal 
From: Mike Cohen 
Sent: Monday, August 03, 2015 7:16 PM 
Subject: FW: The Iran Nuclear Deal 
Dear Friends, 
PLEASE watch this very important short and incredibly clear video regarding the Iran deal. 
If you have not yet called your congressmen and asked other friends and relatives to do so, PLEASE do that as well. The 
wellbeing of your children and grandchildren depend upon it! 
Mike 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026620 
- 
The Iran Nuclear Deal 
Dear Friend, 
This week, our featured video is as urgent as it gets. Just days after President Obama and 
Secretary of State John Kerry announced the nuclear deal with Iran, Dennis Prager was in 
studio recording a video explaining why the deal is so dangerous, and how it parallels what 
happened in 1938 between Great Britain and Nazi Germany. This is the fastest turn-
around time on any video we've released in PragerU's history, but what's at stake is so 
monumentally important, we knew we couldn't waste any time. So please take five minutes 
to watch the video. Forward it to your family, friends, and the offices of your Congressional 
representatives. We all have an obligation to do whatever is in our power to impact as 
many people on this topic as we can. 
Click image above or here to watch this video 
- 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026621 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026622 
