From: Sultan Bin Sulayem 
Sent: 6/1/2018 10:54:16 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fwd: Steve Bannon's clever idea to save the GOP from brutal midterms 
Sent from my iPhone 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Fareed Zakaria GPS ‹> 
Date: June 2, 2018 at 2:26:50 AM GMT+4 
To: Fareed Zakaria GPS 
Subject: Steve Bannon's clever idea to save the GOP from brutal midterms 
Please scroll down or click here to read my latest Washington Post column. 
Steve Bannon's clever idea to save the GOP from brutal midterms 
By Fareed Zakaria, Friday, June 1, 2018 
ROME -- The Republican Party faces dim prospects in the midterm elections. But it doesn't have to be that way, says 
Stephen K. Bannon, the chief ideologist of the populist wave that brought Donald Trump into the White House. "If the 
Republicans continue on the path they are on," Bannon told me Thursday, "they will lose 40 seats in the House and 
President Trump will be impeached." He presented an alternative that strikes me as clever, and it's a strategy that 
Trump himself seems to instinctively get. 
Bannon was in Rome to learn from and provide support to the unusual coalition of populists and nationalists who 
together won half the vote in Italy's recent elections and are now set to govern. Bannon sees that sort of coalition — 
mixing left and right, old and young — as his goal for the United States. "Europe is about a year ahead of the United 
States.... You see populist-nationalist movements with reform [here].... You could begin to see the elements of 
Bernie Sanders coupled with the Trump movement that really becomes a dominant political force in American politics." 
(This column draws on an on-air interview he did with me for CNN, as well as a subsequent conversation.) 
The Republican Party's strategy, for now, appears to be to make the midterm elections a series of local contests focusing 
on the tax cut and the healthy economy. Bannon views this as fundamentally misguided. "You have to nationalize the 
election," he said. Bannon understands that voters are moved from the gut more than through a wonky analysis of 
taxes. "This is going to be an emotional [election] — you're either with [House Minority leader] Nancy Pelosi or you're 
with Donald Trump.... Trump's second presidential race will be on Nov. 6 of this year." 
Bannon is most focused on the issue of immigration because it hits both the heart and the head. "Immigration is about 
not just sovereignty, it's about jobs." He believes that the Trump coalition can attract up to a third of Sanders supporters 
who see trade and immigration as having created unfair competition for jobs, particularly for working-class blacks and 
Hispanics. He advocates appealing directly to those voters, saying, "You're not going to be able to take the Hispanic and 
black community from the STEM system in grammar school to our best engineering schools ... to the great jobs in 
Silicon Valley, unless you start to limit these H-1B visas and this unfair competition ... from East Asia and South Asia." 
Now this strikes me as entirely wrong. The reason that not enough Hispanic and black students end up in Silicon Valley 
has much more to do with a broken education system, particularly for poorer kids, than the modest number of skilled 
Asian immigrants who get work visas. The most likely result of limiting these visas is that talented immigrants will simply 
go elsewhere — Canada, Britain, Australia — and start successful companies there. And, in fact, there is lots of evidence 
this is already happening. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031112 
But Bannon is right that this is a brilliant electoral strategy. The idea of greater immigration controls has an undeniable 
mainstream appeal. The Democratic Party is too far to the left on many of these issues, embracing concepts such as 
sanctuary cities, which only reinforces its image as a party that is more concerned with race, identity and 
multiculturalism than the rule of law. 
Where Bannon is analytic and historical, Trump is instinctive. But the president appears to see the situation similarly. I 
wrote last month that Trump would try to fight the midterm elections on immigration and added, "Do not be surprised if 
Trump also picks a few fights with black athletes." In recent weeks, the president has labeled immigrant gang members 
"animals" and suggested that football players who silently protest police violence against blacks should leave the 
country. 
Bannon thinks Trump is just getting started in nationalizing the election around immigration. He predicted the next 
major battle would be over the proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. "The wall is not just totemic. The wall is 
absolutely central to his program.... As we come up on Sept. 30, if [Congress's] appropriations bill does not include 
spending to fully build his wall ... I believe he will shut down the government." 
Sadly, but not surprisingly, Bannon doesn't think the fighting and the rancor in the United States are going away any 
time soon. The "battle between nationalists and globalists is at the fundamental roots of what America is, what America 
will be," he said. "This is very healthy, and ... I think this is going to go on for a long time.... We've got a lot more 
fighting and a lot more scar tissue to go over." 
You can watch my CNN special "The Steve Bannon Interview" on Friday at 9 pm ET and Sunday at 10 am ET. 
NOTE: This e-mail message is subject to the Dubai World Group disclaimer see http://www.dubaiworld.ae/email disclaimer 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031113 
