From: Steve Bannon 
Sent: 7/22/2018 11:58:18 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: Fw: 
Importance: High 
Abandon Hope, All Ye Who Enter 
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T 
From: "jeffrey E." <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Date: Mon, 23 Jul 2018 01:51:58 +0200 
To: < 
Subject: Re: Fw: 
9th circle 
On Mon, Jul 23, 2018 at 1:26 AM Steve Bannon < > wrote: 
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T 
From: Benjamin Harnwell< 
Date: Sun, 22 Jul 2018 22:01:54 +0200 
To: Steve Bannon<I 
Subj ect: Re: 
Bannon the European: He's opening the populist fort in Brussels 
The former Trump strategist arrives in Europe with "The Movement". Objective: an alliance between 
right-wing leaders, from Salvini to Orban in view of the 2019 elections 
NEW YORK. The invasion of Europe has begun. Steve Bannon, 65, the American far-right guru who 
was Donald Trump's right-hand man in the White House — but let go last summer following the racist 
violence in Charlottesville — is preparing to march on Brussels. Launching, he told the Daily Beast 
himself, a new non-profit foundation called The Movement, (II Movimento), right in the heart of Europe 
and its institutions. Through which he hopes to coordinate the populist right in view of the European 
elections which will be held in spring 2019. 
Objective: to compete with George Soros, the American billionaire of Hungarian origin, benefactor of 
the Democratic party, who since 1984 with his Open Society has spent at least $32 billion in support of 
NGOs dealing with human rights. And for this he became the bogeyman of the populist right, accused of 
plots of all kinds: including that of wanting to replace Italians with immigrants in order to have labour at 
low cost. A mantra repeated in the past on Twitter also by the current Minister of the Interior Matteo 
Salvini. 
The ambition of Steve Bannon, former director of the alt-right American site Breitbart — which in the 
European campaign preceded him since the platform had already opened bureaux in London and Rome 
— is therefore to become the coordinator of the one great "populist international" of which he has long 
since been dreaming. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019305 
The Movement, in fact, intends to function as an extreme right-wing think tank: a source of strategic 
advice to channel the not-so-politically structured discontent of the most extreme European movements. 
Analysing data and giving strategic advice. But also by raising funds and channeling funding. 
The aim is to create a populist alliance, a sort of "super group" that if victorious can conquer up to a 
third of the European Parliament in the elections next May. 
Indeed — putting the common policy of the Old Continent in the hands of Bannon and his own. The 
American strategist is very attached to the Freedom Caucus — the extreme right of the US Congress — 
and in 2014 he was at the top of the Cambridge Analytica company, which in 2016 used data stolen from 
Facebook to try to influence the presidential election from which Donald Trump emerged victor. It is not 
a mystery that for a long time he courts nationalists of the right from East to West. And he has already 
met, among others, the Hungarian Orban, the French Marine Le Pen and the former leader of the British 
separatists Nigel Farage. The latter reappeared, coincidentally, on Friday in Pennsylvania, USA, to a 
fundraiser in favor of the Republican congressman Lou Barletta. Without forgetting the Italians of Lega 
and 5 stars. Of them, he said: "If it works in Italy, we can import the model anywhere". 
The Movement, which for now will count on a staff of 10 people, will be fully operational in 2019. In 
short, after the American midterm elections, where Bannon is fighting to influence the primaries 
supporting candidates potentially able to undermine the prospects of Republican establishment. But in 
the future the former spin doctor says he wants to spend more and more time in Europe. Also because 
the relationships with Trump have worsened after the revelations he made to Michael Wolff and 
published in the scandal book "Fire and Fury". "Better to reign in Hell than to serve in Paradise," 
Bannon says now paraphrasing the Satan of one of his favorite books, John Milton's Lost Paradise. Hell 
in this case would be the dear old Europe and its democratic values. The "army of darkness" is already 
among us. 
In Sacratissimo Corde Iesu et Purissimo Corde Mariae et Castissimo Corde Ioseph. 
******* 
Benjamin Harnwell 
Founder and President of the Board of Trustees 
Dignitatis Humanae Institute 
Cell:• 
Office: 
Istituto Dignitatis Humanae 
44 Via delle Fornaci  
Roma 00165  
ITALY  
@ben harnwell 
www.dignitatishumanae.com 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019306 
II giorno 22 lug 2018, alle ore 15:38, Steve Bannon W ha scritto: 
What does this say??? 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Maria Luisa ' 
Date: July 22, 2018 at 9:11:58 AM EDT 
To: Steve Bannon < >, Preate Alexandra 
<PHOTO-2018-07-22-10-02-17.jpg> 
Sent from my iPhone 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019307 
