KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
AND AFFILIATED PARTNERSHIPS 
Kenneth W. Starr 
o Call Writer Directly 
Chicago 
777 South Figueroa Street 
Los Angeles, California 90017 
(213) 680-8400 
www.kirkland.com 
June 19, 2008 
John Roth, Esq. 
Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General 
Office of the Deputy Attorney General 
United States Department of Justice 
950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Room 4115 
Washington, D.C. 20530 
Dear Mr. Roth: 
Facsimile: 
I again want to thank you for this opportunity to explain why we believe that a federal 
prosecution of Jeffrey Epstein is unwarranted. I appreciate your having informed us that you 
already have our May 19 and May 27 communications to the Deputy Attorney General, as well 
as our prior written submissions to CEOS and to the Southern District of Florida. 
In light of the significant volume of our prior submissions and to facilitate your review, 
we have drafted four supplemental submissions that will provide a roadmap for your 
investigation of this matter. Given the bulk of these documents and their appended supporting 
attachments, you will receive this packet by messenger tomorrow. A brief description of each of 
the four submissions follows. First, I have included a succinct summary of the facts, law and 
policy issues at hand. This document sets forth a basic overview of the issues and summarizes 
our principal contentions as to why federal prosecution of this matter is neither appropriate nor 
warranted. 
The three other submissions include: a summary of the irregularities and misconduct that 
occurred during the federal investigation; a letter from former CEOS attorney Stephanie Thacker 
that responds to CEOS 's assessment of its limited review of Mr. Epstein's case; and a point-by-
point rebuttal to First Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey Sloman's recent letter which we 
believe contains factual inaccuracies typical of our correspondence from the United States 
Attorney's Office in Miami (the "USAO"). Also, for your reference, the package you receive 
tomorrow will contain a binder including all documentation to which we refer in our 
submissions. Finally, we will be providing a detailed checklist of each submission or substantive 
communication to the USAO. Our intention is that you have copies of each such document to 
enhance your review. If there are any that you have not received from the USAO or CEOS, 
please advise and we will fedex them to you without delay. 
Hong Kong London Munich New York San Francisco Washington, D.C. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012130 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
John Roth, Esq. 
June 19, 2008 
Page 2 
As you are likely aware, the Department's prior review of this matter was incomplete 
and, by its own admission, not "de novo." See Tab 38, May 15, 2008 Letter from A. Oosterbaan. 
Without considering the Non Prosecution Agreement that left this matter to be resolved in the 
State or any of the misconduct, CEOS reviewers, tasked with reviewing some of their own 
previously expressed opinions, assessed only whether the United States Attorney would "abuse 
[his] discretion" if he pursued this case. While we appreciate CEOS' s willingness to examine 
these limited issues, its conclusion that a prosecution would not be an "abuse of discretion" rings 
particularly hollow in light of CEOS 's admirably candid concessions that we have raised 
"compelling" objections and that a prosecution on these facts would require "novel" applications 
of federal law. Indeed, even a brief review of CEOS's own mission statement reveals how 
inapposite a federal prosecution is to the facts in this case. 
Importantly, we note that the CEOS review was conducted prior to the Supreme Court's 
very recent decisions in Santos and Cuellar, which we believe—illuminating as they do the 
Court's interpretive methodology when it comes to federal criminal law—powerfully 
demonstrate the substantive vulnerability of the USAO's unprecedented employment of three 
federal laws. That Office's interpretation would never pass muster under the Supreme Court's 
recent pronouncements and should not be countenanced. That is all the more true under the 
circumstances where the duly appointed U.S. Attorney opined that, in effect, the "unitary" 
Executive Branch was driving this prosecution. We now know that is not so. 
What I respectfully request, and what I hope you will provide, is a truly "de novo" 
review—that is, an independent assessment of whether federal prosecution of Mr. Epstein is both 
necessary and warranted in view of the legal and evidentiary hurdles that have been identified, 
the existence of a State felony plea and sentence that have been advocated by the State Attorney 
for Palm Beach County, and the many issues of prosecutorial misconduct and overzealousness 
that have permeated the investigation. I also request that you provide us with the opportunity 
during your review to meet with you in person to answer any questions you may have and to 
elucidate some of the issues in our submission. 
We believe that an independent review will confirm our strong belief that federal 
prosecutors would be required to stretch the plain meaning of each element of the enumerated 
statutes, and then to combine these distorted elements in a tenuous chain, in order to convict Mr. 
Epstein. Indeed, just this week (and after two years of federal involvement in this matter), 
Assistant United States Attorney Villafana re-initiated the federal grand jury investigation—in 
direct contravention of the parties' Non Prosecution Agreement—and issued yet another 
subpoena seeking evidence in this case. See Tab 19, Subpoena to In the 
subpoena, AUSA Villafana directs_____________________to appear on July 1, 2008 to give testimony 
and produce documents to FGJ 07-103 West Palm Beach. The attachment to the subpoena seeks 
documents such as photographs, emails, telephone billing information, and contact information 
that relate to Mr. Epstein as well as specific other people who received protection from federal 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012131 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
John Roth, Esq. 
June 19, 2008 
Page 3 
prosecution as a result of Mr. Epstein's having entered into the September 24, 2007 Non 
Prosecution Agreement with the USAO. 
Notably, the Non Prosecution Agreement contains the following agreed condition: 
Further, upon execution of this agreement and a plea agreement with the State Attorney's Office, 
the federal Grand Jury investigation will be suspended, and all pending federal Grand Jury 
subpoenas will be held in abeyance unless and until the defendant violates any term of this 
agreement. The defendant likewise agrees to withdraw his pending motion to intervene and to 
quash certain grand jury subpoenas. 
See Tab 21, September 24, 2007 Non Prosecution Agreement. It also guarantees that persons 
identified in the Grand Jury subpoena such as_________________________________and Leslie Groff 
and others will not be prosecuted. The new Grand Jury subpoena clearly violates the Non-
Prosecution Agreement. Although Mr. Epstein has exercised his rights to appeal to the 
Department of Justice with the full consent and knowledge of the USAO, he has not breached the 
Agreement. The re-commencing of the Grand Jury is in violation of the Agreement. 
But further, the new investigation, which features a wide-ranging, fishing-expedition type 
to search in New York does nothing to satisfy the very essential elements of federal statutes that 
are lacking despite the intensity of an over two-year investigation in the Palm Beach area. 
Absent evidence of Internet luring, inducements while using the phone, travel for the purpose, 
fraud or coercion, the subject of the New York investigation is as lacking in the essential basis 
for converting a state case into a federal case as is the remainder of the Florida investigation. 
The reaching out to New York to fill the void emanating from the failures of the Florida 
investigation compellingly demonstrates the misuse of federal resources in an overzealous, over-
personalized, selective and extraordinary attempt to expand federal law to where it is has never 
gone. This last-ditch attempt by Ms. Villafana reinforces our belief that the USA() does not have 
facts that, without distortion, would justify a prosecution of Mr. Epstein. 
In view of the prosecution's often-verbalized desire to punish Mr. Epstein, we believe 
that the prosecution summary suffers from critical inaccuracies and aggregates the expected 
testimony of witnesses so as to reach a conclusion of guilt. Our contention is reinforced by the 
fact that key prosecution witnesses have provided evidence and testimony that directly 
undermines the prosecution's misleading and inaccurate summary of its case. Indeed, we now 
have received statements from three of the principal accusers— _  (through a state 
criminal deposition), (through a federal FBI-USAO sworn and transcribed 
interview), and (through a defense—generated sworn transcribed interview). 
Each of these witnesses categorically denies each essential element that the prosecution will have 
to prove in order to convert this quintessential state-law case into a federal matter. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012132 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
John Roth, Esq. 
June 19, 2008 
Page 4 
It thus is especially troubling that the USAO has not provided us with the transcript of 
's federal interview, nor the substance of the interviews with Ms. or Ms. 
, nor any information generated by interviews with any of the approximately 40 alleged 
witnesses that the prosecution claims it has identified. Because the information provided by 
these women goes directly to the question of Mr. Epstein's guilt or innocence, it is classic Brady 
information. We understand that the U.S. Attorney might not want to disclose impeachment 
information about their witnesses prior to a charge or during plea negotiations. But we firmly 
believe that when the Government possesses information that goes directly to a target's factual 
guilt or innocence, the target should be informed about such heartland exculpatory evidence. 
Most importantly, aside from whether the Department believes Brady obligates 
disclosure to a target of a federal investigation prior to the target's formal accusation, no such 
limit should apply to a Department review. Accordingly, we request that you go beneath the face 
of any summary provided to you by the USAO and instead review the actual witness transcripts 
and FBI 302s, which are essential for you to be able to make a truly independent assessment of 
the strength and wisdom of any federal prosecution. 
After careful consideration of the record, and as much as it pains me to say this, I simply 
do not believe federal prosecutors would have been involved at all in this matter if not for Mr. 
Epstein's personal wealth and publicly-reported ties to former President Bill Clinton. A simple 
Internet search on Mr. Epstein reveals myriad articles and news stories about the former 
President's personal relationship with Mr. Epstein, including multi-page stories in New York 
Magazine and Vanity Fair. Mr. Epstein, in fact, only came to the public's attention a few years 
ago when he and the former President traveled for a week to Africa (using Mr. Epstein's 
airplane)—a trip that received a great deal of press coverage. I cannot imagine that the USA() 
ever would have contemplated a prosecution in this case if Mr. Epstein lacked this type of 
notoriety. 
That belief has been reinforced by the significant prosecutorial impropriety and 
misconduct throughout the course of this matter. While we describe the majority of these 
irregularities in another submission, two instances are particularly troubling. First, the USA() 
authorized the public disclosure of specific details of the open investigation to the New York 
Times—including descriptions of the prosecution's theory of the case and specific terms of a plea 
negotiation between the parties. Second, AUSA Villafana attempted to enrich friends and close 
acquaintances by bringing them business in connection with this matter. Specifically, she 
attempted to appoint a close personal friend of her live-in boyfriend to serve as an attorney-
representative for the women involved in this case. 
It also bears mentioning that actions taken by FAUSA Sloman present an appearance of 
impropriety that gives us cause for concern. Mr. Sloman's former law partner is currently 
pursuing a handful of $50-million lawsuits against Mr. Epstein by some of the masseuses. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012133 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
John Roth, Esq. 
June 19, 2008 
Page 5 
Finally, as you know, Mr. Epstein and the USA() entered into an agreement that deferred 
prosecution to the State. In this regard, I simply note that the manner in which this agreement 
was negotiated contrasts sharply with Mr. Sloman's current representation that "[Vile SDFL 
indicated a willingness to defer to the State the length of incarceration . . . " See Tab 1, May 19, 
2008 Letter from J. Sloman, p. 2. This statement is simply not true. Contrary to Mr. Sloman's 
assertion, federal prosecutors refused to accept what the State believed to be appropriate as to 
Mr. Epstein's sentence and instead, insisted that Mr. Epstein be required serve a two-year term of 
imprisonment (which they later decreased to 18 months plus one year of house arrest). Federal 
prosecutors have not only involved themselves in what is quintessentially a state matter, but their 
actions have caused a critical appearance of impropriety that raises doubt as to their motivation 
for investigating and prosecuting Mr. Epstein in the first place. 
At bottom, we appreciate your willingness to review this matter with a fresh—and 
independent—set of eyes. To facilitate your review, I once again request the opportunity to 
make an oral presentation to supplement our written submissions, and we will promptly respond 
to any inquiries you may have. 
Kenneth W. Starr 
cc: Deputy Attorney General Mark Filip 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012134 
