From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Weingarten, Reid 
7/4/2017 5:57:07 PM 
jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Re: The new iterations of Ghislaine Maxwell 
Importance: High 
Too down...give me another day 
Sent from my BlackBerry 10 smartphone. 
From: Jeffrey E. 
Sent: Tuesday, July 4, 2017 12:53 PM 
To: Weingarten, Reid 
Subject: Re: Fw: The new iterations of Ghislaine Maxwell 
On Tue, Jul 4, 2017 at 6:46 PM Weingarten, Reid 
Number? 
Sent from my BlackBerry 10 smartphone. 
From: 
Sent: Saturday, July 1, 2017 12:49 PM 
To: 
Cc: Ainbanklaw Info• 
I; Patrick M. Regan; 
wrote: 
Denyse Sabagh; 
Michael Baxter; 
Robert Barnett; Weingarten, Reid; 
Ellen Kerns; 
Subject: Re: The new iterations of Ghislaine Maxwell 
We know of course that Saturdays are reserved for Matthew Horton. 
On Saturday, July 1, 2017, 12:06:29 PM EDT, wrote: 
Rich Beckler, 
Ken Adams, 
Do you remember when I'd asked you what your daughters did for a living? Especially last night Mr. 
Beckler, as most Friday nights, no? 
Yes, they are the new iterations of Ghislaine Maxwell; for you Richard Beckler, this originated from 
my being a former Stone Ridge classmate of his elder daughter Katie Beckler, and because he was 
on the Board of Stone Ridge during this period in time when my every family, friend, acquaintance 
and association was being contacted, bribed in one form or another, and turned against me (see 
below); as for Ken Adams, it stemmed from my having contacted him for representation in my 2011-
filed case against IBM also during this period of time when my every communication were being 
tracked. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015015 
You both are interesting; you let us see what's to become of the Scalia 35 (see below; at bottom, 
Ghislaine Maxwell's Jeffrey Epstein in context.) 
We start from this following precept: (the repeating 9/11s) 
1. "Toward a New World Order" speech by Pres. George H.W. Bush — 9/11 (1990) 
2. WTC Attack — 9/11 (2001) 
3. BENGHAZI Attack — 9/11 (2012) 
But you have to remember that H. W. Bush was planted: 
AUTHOR PETER DALE SCOTT: Sometimes you have little deep events that most people don't even 
notice. One of those would be the Halloween Massacre. The older people remember the Saturday 
Night Massacre which happened under Nixon. I'm talking about the Halloween Massacre of October 
31, 1975, and probably people watching this show have never heard of it. 
That was under Ford, and Ford may have condoned it because it was trying to help restore his 
popularity. He was going way down in the polls. But it was a very important series of events all on 
the same night. The head of the CIA was fired, William Colby, replaced by a relatively unknown man 
called George H. W. Bush who then went on to authorize something that Colby had refused to 
authorize - the Team B report - the Team B to recalculate the Soviet threat and it was pre-
determined. They were going to find that it was much bigger than the professionals angled like 
Raymond [inaudible] that I mentioned. 
They said Russia is less of a threat now than it used to be. Well, that was terrible news for the 
industrial complex so the Team B came in and said oh, no, no, no, it's much more of a threat than it 
used to be, and that's why we got this huge military build-up. It started actually under Carter but we 
think of it as the Reagan build-up, and that of course is a major factor in having ended the Soviet 
Union because the Soviet Union tried to match it with a weaker economy. And that arms race which 
was not about threats but was about fighting economic war, that was an arms race which you could 
say that the Soviet Union lost because they couldn't keep it up. Their economy went more and more 
downhill because they were deflecting resources away from vital domestic functions. But really I'm 
trying to talk here about the Halloween Massacre... 
Just the change in the CIA was a major historical event but it wasn't very visible. The second thing 
that happened was they fired Jim Schlesinger as Secretary of Defense... It was being done by 
[President Ford's] Chief of Staff and his assistant who are two names barely known then but quite 
famous since. Chief of staff was Donald Rumsfeld and the assistant was Dick Cheney. And that was 
the first real intrusion of the Rumsfeld-Cheney team into American politics. And they became the real 
heart of what I consider the Deep State in the 1980s when they were planning for Continuity of 
Government which was a plan for emergency rules like warrantless surveillance and warrantless 
detention and the militarization of homeland security. All those things were planned all through the 
'80s - COG planning by Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney. Even when Rumsfeld wasn't in the 
government, he was authorized by Reagan to do this planning. 
And why is that important to our history? Because in 2001, these two men were now in the 
government - Vice President and Secretary of Defense - the two top people in Washington on 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015016 
September the 11th, 2001 when Bush was down in Florida - George W. Bush - and what did they do 
on that day? They implemented the plans they had been planning for 20 years. Another major event 
in American history but it's not usually told that way. 
We implemented - it's in the 9/11 Commission Report that COG plans were implemented on that 
day. This is a huge change in our country. We now have an ARMY command, NORTHCOM, to take 
charge of America - North America, the way SOUTHCOM is in charge of South America and 
CENTCOM is in charge of Central Asia. 
This used to be illegal... We had the posse comitatus acts which said, yes, if there's a real 
emergency you could call up the ARMY to deal with the emergency, but you cannot do it on a 
permanent basis but we now do do it on a permanent basis. We haven't even bothered to repeal the 
posse comitatus. We are in a state of emergency that was declared on September the 14th, 2001. 
And it's still enforced. It has to be renewed every year. Obama did it every year just as George Bush 
renewed it every year. 
What are the roots of this? Well there are the legitimate roots that go back to fear of an atomic 
decapitation of the government back in the Truman era, so legitimate COG planning goes back to 
Truman and Eisenhower, but the illegitimate use of COG to deal with any emergnecy you like, that 
goes to the Reagan administration and it really goes back to the [Halloween] Massacre where 
Rumsfeld and Cheney put their thumbprint on American politics for the first time. 
-- interview of Peter Dale Scott, @ min. 32:00, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hNqDAYWYFuQ&t=2433s 
This all suggests that the start of the 9/11 agenda pre-dated him as well. I see now that there was a 
seemingly relevant 1990 event as well. "On September 11, 1970 -- a date that only took on haunting 
overtones with the attacks on New York and Washington in 2001 -- Nixon became the first U.S. 
president to try to protect air travelers from extremists who sensed gaping vulnerabilities in security 
for commercial airliners, issuing a statement listing a string of measures including the introduction of 
100 air marshals on U.S. planes. "Most countries, including the United States, found effective means 
of dealing with piracy on the high seas a century and a half ago," Nixon said. "We can -- and we will - 
- deal effectively with piracy in the skies today." 
The President had been jolted into action by the simultaneous hijackings of planes in Europe headed 
to the United States. Jets belonging to TWA, Pan Am and Swissair were seized by the Popular Front 
for the Liberation of Palestine. The group also attempted to hijack a jet over London belonging to the 
Israeli airline El Al but was thwarted by security guards on board. 
The Pan Am seizure ended quickly, but the passengers on the TWA and Swissair jets were diverted 
to a British air base in Jordan and the drama only ended after days of tense diplomacy, when the 
hostages were all released in a deal in which the Swiss, German, British and Israeli governments let 
Palestinian prisoners go." (http://www.cnn.com/2015/07/27/politics/terrorism-1970s-richard-
nixon/index.html) 
This 9/11 response sounds quite normal of course. But fast forward and the two secret service 
individuals chosen for an April 2001 interview by a PWC staff member on behalf of what becomthe 
IBM Center for the Business of Government were (1) Steve Colo who happened to be the head of 
the division at SAIC that falsely labeled me a threat and added my name to some sort of Do Not 
Admit list at the end of a 5 month temp assignment in 2005 into early 2006. The consequence of the 
SAIC designation for me was the following: 
(I write) "The SAIC designation took advantage of a devilish stratagem in which as a national 
security employee (having filed out a SF-86 form, governed actually by the GSA - 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015017 
https://www.osa.clov/portal/forms/download/116390 - for government clearance) working a 
designated contract in a classified facility, being designated a disturbance/dissident/threat to 
operations, makes one, in turn, a threat to national security - with all the surveillance/targeting that 
enables." In essence I was made an enemy of the State and was tracked, my family and friends 
turned, my opportunities seized to include the opportunity to rear family as demonstrated especially 
in the 2007 sabotage of my third trimester pregnancy and then the targeting and eventual capture of 
children I used to babysit - in 2011, they were predominantly tweens - to be used for sexual 
blackmail and other forms of leverage. The reason for the use of children in this barbaric way was to 
expend "ops" that were already in effect and had been used to control many of the politicians that 
have been allowed to rise to the top (see info on the Franklin Scandal for example), and similarly 
according to the laws of compromise, the following which has been recently developing into highly 
coordinated murder "ops": 
(I write) "The progress that was made from the absorbing of my (small) network (and this through 
sources and methods - money and other pleasureful compensations given to those willing to 
participate in and/or coordinate violence against me and my loved ones to include children leading 
only to now their enabled targeting and the absorbing of whatever may be their networks - well, you 
see below (and this only the very tip of the iceberg) how many people they've been able to engulf 
and what advances have been made by the quite elaborate criminal class employing these tactics; 
and one also begins to better understand the events surrounding Justice Scalia's passing and what's 
to come for the 35 guests in Scalia's private party. As for Scalia's passing, it was decidedly 
suspicious as noted by William Ritchie: (The Washington Post prints) "As a former homicide 
commander, I am stunned that no autopsy was ordered for Justice Scalia," William 0. Ritchie, former 
head of criminal investigations for D.C. police, wrote in a post on Facebook on Sunday... Ritchie also 
raised questions about the marshals' actions: "How can the Marshal say, without a thorough post 
mortem, that he was not injected with an illegal substance that would simulate a heart attack... Did 
the US Marshal check for petechial hemorrhage in his eyes or under his lips that would have 
suggested suffocation? Did the US Marshal smell his breath for any unusual odor that might suggest 
poisoning? My gut tells me there is something fishy going on in Texas." 
As for SAIC, the following also pertains: 
(I write) "If you first see SAIC as what's called a systems integrator (author Tim Shorrock's phrase), 
and also the formerly married Bud and Sue Horton and their two grown sons Matthew Horton and 
Ben Lanier as aids of an implementation, you can better see the bigger picture: 
(1) Sue Horton left IBM in early 2007-ish for an executive position at Tetra Tech which soon entered 
into joint venture with SAIC (Sue's employer prior to IBM, btw) on an enormous (billion dollar) 2011 
Hillary Clinton State Department award (http://www.prnewswire.com/.../saic-tetra-tech-joint-venture-
a...); 
(2) that Bud Horton left IBM in early 2009-ish for an executive position at Accenture which soon 
thereafter entered into joint venture with SAIC spin-off Leidos, and Cerner, on an enormous (billion 
dollar) 2015 DoD award (http://www.healthcareitnews.com/.../dod-names-ehr-contract-wi...); 
(3) that the Sue Horton contract was used to grow and fortify the Afghan heroin trade (as well as 
corrupt law enforcement) although the stated intention was of course the opposite... ("[SAIC and 
Tetra Tech's] joint venture, Integrated Justice Systems International, LLC (USD, has been awarded a 
contract to provide worldwide civilian police and criminal justice assistance to the U.S. Department of 
State's Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL)... [specifically} to 
provide INL with program management, criminal justice, and life and mission support to countries 
emerging from conflict or otherwise facing instability challenges. Under this new contract, IJSI will 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015018 
provide technical assistance, training, logistics and infrastructure services to support the Department 
of State's efforts to strengthen criminal justice systems in select partner countries.").., yet, just 
months shy of contract end, the NY Times reported: "Tasked With Combating Opium, Afghan 
Officials Profit From It;" "Penetrating Every Stage of Afghan Opium Chain, Taliban become a Cartel;" 
and "Corrupt Combatants Fight for Control of Lucrative Afghan Drug Trade;" see also here an 
overview of the growth of Afghan opium production from the start of the US occupation (2001) to the 
present, and especially from contract start (2011) to end (2016): http://www.olobalresearch.ca/the-
spoils-of-war-afghanist.../91; 
(4) and that the award Bud Horton helped secure just as Sue's contract was coming to an end was 
not only born from what looks like Franklin Scandal compromises, but it is this contract that seems 
intent on implementing bioterrorism as the new form of explosive terrorism." 
(Note that both members of this family were awarded BILLION dollar contracts; that's quite 
exceptional, no?) 
As for terrorism as an US industry, it's hardly better seen than through the following which is 
information of course we all know: 
We note that in-between Bush #41's 9/11/1990 speech(with Dick Cheney as his Secretary of 
Defense) and the 9/11/2001 attack on the WTC were little more than Clinton's 8 years in the White 
House. We look also to The American Deep State by Peter Dale Scott for evidence of ties between 
the actions of the Clinton administration and (1) the 1993 attack on the WTC and (2) the 1998 attack 
on the US embassy in Nairobi, Kenya which demonstrate that the Clinton administration in no 
uncertain terms sponsored terrorism: 
(Writes Scott) "The homicidal crime suggested by Fenton's meticulous research is one both difficult 
and painful to contemplate. It has to be considered in the light of the earlier instances of protection 
we have surveyed: 
1. the protection given to Salameh and Abouhalima in the 1990 Kahane murder, leaving them free to 
participate in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing; 
2. the failure for two or three years to process Ali Mohamed's documents seized in 1990, which could 
have prevented the 1993 World Trade Center bombing; 
3. the release of Ali Mohamed from Royal Canadian Mounted Police detention in 1993, leaving him 
free to participate in the 1998 Nairobi Embassy bombing; 
4. the treatment of Ali Mohamed as an "unindicted coconspirator" in the 1993 WTC bombing case 
and Landmarks case, leaving him free to participate in the 1998 Nairobi Embassy bombing. 
(pp. 76-77, The American Deep State) 
Scott had earlier examined these attacks in especial connection to the September 11, 2001 attack 
on the WTC: 
(Writes Scott) "For indeed it is certain that on various occasions U.S. agencies have intervened, 
letting al-Qaeda terrorists proceed with their plots. This alarming statement will be dismissed by 
some as "conspiracy theory." Yet in this chapter, I will show that this claim doesn't to arise from 
theory, but from facts that are true, even though they have been systemically suppressed or under-
reported in the American mainstream media. I am describing a phenomenon that occurred not just 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015019 
once, but repeatedly, almost predictably. We shall see that, among the al-Qaeda terrorists who were 
first protected and then continued their activities were the following: 
1. Ali Mohamed, identified in the 9/11 Commission Report as the leader of the 1998 Nairobi 
Embassy bombing; 
2. Mohammed Jamal Khalife, Osama bin Laden's close friend and, while in the Philippines, financier 
of both Ramzi Yousef (principal architect of the first World Trade Center [WTC] attack) and his uncle 
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed; 
3. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, identified in the 9/11 Commission Report as "the principal architect of 
the 9/11 attacks"; 
4. Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi, two of the alleged 9/11 hijackers, whose presence in the 
United States was concealed from the FBI by CIA officers for months before 9/11. 
It might sound from these citations that the 9/11 Commission marked a new stage in the U.S. 
treatment of these terrorists, and that the report now exposed those terrorists who in the past had 
been protected. On the contrary, a principal purpose of my chapter is to show that 
1. one purpose of protecting these individuals had been to protect a valued intelligence connection 
(the "al-Qaeda connection," if you will); 
2. one major intention of the 9/11 Commission Report was to continue protecting this connection; 
3. those on the 9/11 Commission staff who were charged with this protection included at least one 
commission member (Jamie Gorelick), one staff member (Dietrich Snell), and one important witness 
(Patrick Fitzgerald) who earlier had figured among the terrorists' protectors. 
In the course of writing this chapter [Scott continues], I came to another disturbing conclusion I had 
not anticipated. This is that a central feature of the protection has been to defend the 9/11 
Commission's false picture of al-Qaeda as an example of non-state terrorism, ignoring not just the 
CIA but also the royal families of Saudi Arabia and Qatar. In reality, as I shall show, royal family 
protection from Qatar and Saudi Arabia (concealed by the 9/11 Commission) was repeatedly given 
to key figures like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged "principal architect of the 9/11 attacks." The 
establishment claims that the wars fought by America in Asia since 9/11 have been part of a global 
"war on terror." But this "war on terror" has been fought in alliance with Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and 
Pakistan - precisely the principal political and financial backers of the al-Qaedist networks the United 
States has supposedly been fighting. Meanwhile the most authentic opponents in the region of these 
Sunni al-Qaedists - the governments of Iraq, Libya, Syria, and Iran - have found themselves 
overthrown (in the case of Iraq and Libya), subverted with U.S. support (in the case of Syria), or 
sanctioned and threatened as part of an "axis of evil" (in the case of Iran). We should not forget that, 
just one day after 9/11, "Rumsfeld was talking about broadening the objectives of our response and 
'getting Iraq." 
(pp. 44-45, The American Deep State) 
Clinton's daughter is now poised to work global health initiatives which I would suggest is little more 
than a cover for on-going terrorism "ops". 
To return to Steve Colo - in the interview he speaks of a partnership between the Secret Service, the 
FBI, and South Carolina's SLED (State Law Enforcement Division) to open a Computer Crime 
Center. Bud Horton (mentioned above) (long-affiliated with IT Security; his title at Accenture was 
Chief technology officer of it's cyber security practice) happened to have just moved to South 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015020 
Carolina from Loudoun County after being implicated in a continuing child sex scandal (see details 
below). Further, cyber-crime just so happens to be another of the arenas in which our Intelligence 
Community coordinates with the Russians: "The US cooperates with the FSB and Russia's interior 
ministry on counter-terrorism, organized crime, bio-terrorism, and cyber-crime." -- p. 243, Expelled: A 
Journalist's Descent into the Russian Mafia State, by Luke Harding) Most would interpret this quote 
to suggest that the nations work together to prevent these various threats. The reality is more the 
opposite; trust me when I say that the US doesn't work "ops" alone - the 2005 London Bombings is 
one notable example of a instance in which the US coordinated with also British intelligence in the 
perpetration of an attack.) I just tweeted this morning actually the following in regards to US 
coordinations with the Russians: "One must know a renowned Rus mafiaso was granted entry 
https://en.wikipedia.orcilwiki/Vyacheslay Ivankov#Movinq to the United States ... be4 the real 
story of today's US-Rus relations is slowly known" in response to the following comment 
@turndeaux: Peter Dale Scott, who writes about the Deep State, says Russia issue is "a bona fide 
security issue, not a diversion". 
About Bud Horton and the Loudoun County matter - in attempts to make a long story short, the 
following email chain: 
On Monday, June 26, 2017 10:57 AM, wrote: 
Sheriff Chapman, 
Loudoun Count, VA 
Did you ever consider that Loudoun was a target? That your community was induced to walk it's own 
children down the plank as compensation for what Loudoun had done to the young Dima Yakovlev? 
Because now child exploitation is deeply embedded within your community with your own people 
(your own police, your own prosecutors, your own public defenders and private attorneys) protecting 
this very system that will be used to take the futures of your Loudoun children (see more of the 
details below). Is it possible that that's how this happened, and you saw it not unfolding before your 
eyes? Or was it simply money and just another good enough justification? 
Forwarded Message 
On Monday, June 26, 2017 10:24 AM, 
Changeis, 
wrote: 
You reported in May of 2014 that you hired Bob Richel formerly of the DEA as Vice President of 
Corporate Development. In an April 2014 interview by the Loudoun County Police (those in the 
mouth of the lion but not quite aware of it yet but to have foreseen the ways in which the 2008 death 
of the Russian born 21 month-old Dima Yakovlev (renamed Chase Harrison by his Purcellville, VA 
adoptive parents) would have been used as "justification" for a (quite profitable) counter-offensive... ) 
of Henry "Bud" Horton (characterized by Loudoun County as a "victim" of the recent "False 
statement to Law Enforcement Officer (LEO)" of him sexually exploiting the 15 year-old Anjulee 
Gunther), Henry "Bud" Horton named Bob Rachel as one of the DEA guys he used to work with. 
This takes on unusual significance in light of the below, no? 
(How lovely, by the way, this following information and the ways in which it helps us understand 
many of the hidden influences: "Halliburton is also involved with the Russian mob. They're got sort of 
two things going on. One is oil and the other is drug trafficking. Halliburton is a story all by itself." 
(says Stan Goff, http://narconews.com/qoffmccormick1.html)) 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015021 
On Saturday, June 24, 2017 2:43 PM, wrote: 
Mr. Satz, 
State's Attorney, Broward County, Fl 
I'm forwarding the below information as it pertains to Mrs. Lesley Simms and more importantly the 
ones with whom she continues to coordinate. 
As you may know, she was once close with an individual named Matthew Horton with whom she 
attended George Mason University, and through Matthew, Ms. Simms became well-acquainted with 
Matthew's parents Henry "Bud" Horton and Sue Popovich Horton who helped secure her a position 
at IBM upon her graduation from GMU. Both of these latter individuals (Bud and Sue Horton) were 
involved in the 2007 murder of my son, and they in collusion with their son Matthew continue in the 
exploitation of children Anjulee and Xian Gunther. The powers that be intend now for these children 
to (continue to) follow in the footsteps of Ms. Simms, and to that end, I would advise that you 
become acquainted with (1) the ways in which Ms. Simms subsidized her law school education and 
off course (2) her current and related endeavors especially as they relate to drug trafficking and 
terror financing (see below email to Mr. Martin of the St. Augustine Record). 
On Friday, June 23, 2017 8:36 AM, 
Mr. Martin, 
St. Augustine Record 
wrote: 
Quite an interesting article about the litigation between Deputy Banks and Rusty Rogers (see: 
Deputy Banks' attorney claims FDLE agent's credibility 'destroyed') It must also be explored, of 
course, that Officers Rodgers was once well respected for his investigation and exposure of a 
terrorist financing network that permeated the sunny state of Florida - (the NY Times reports) "Agent 
Rodgers joined the state's elite investigative unit, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, where 
he quickly earned agent-of-the-year honors — and a meeting with the governor — for helping 
dismantle a terrorist financing network that stretched from Florida to the Middle East" - and that 
terrorism is very much a well-protected U.S. industry (see below). 
God forbid some poor should get away with disrupting the delicate state of secreted operations; as 
you yourself report, "As written in [Plaintiff Banks] motion: "Defendant Rodgers' false, misleading 
and inconsistent testimony throughout the discovery process is so pervasive and extreme, and 
involves so many material issues, it has destroyed Defendant's credibility on all issues..." And here 
we see the "whole-of-government" attempts to restore balance. 
As for the second Secret Service agent interviewed by the IBM Center for the Business of 
Government, his name is Dana Brown. He just so happened to have filled out his career with the 
Federal Air Marshall Service (October 2003-August 2008 as Director/Chief of Staff) followed by the 
TSA (March 2006-January 2009 as Asst. Administrator-Law Enforcement/Integrity Officer) states his 
Linked In profile. That he worked his way around to that which was largely put in place by the 1970 
9/11 mini-event seems to me rather significant although I don't see all the details yet. I also don't yet 
see exactly who it was that birthed this lengthy 9/11 initiative we're suffering. It seems clear, 
however, that it was birthed prior to 1970. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015022 
The initiative has adjusted in some ways over time, but homage to 9/11 remains strong. Certain of 
the people deeply involved in these manipulations thought it was kismet that an individual well-suited 
to head the newly ordained Department of Homeland Security (that as we all know was the result of 
legislation rushed through Congress in the aftermath of the 9/11 (2001) attack) was born on the 
magical September 11th (this is Jeh Johnson); similarly, it is again being deemed a sign that the new 
Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) (chosen and positioned as she was) is first-
named France (last name Cordova) and that this name so perfectly relates to US intentions to use 
the NSF to forward "ops" that will solidify a US-France working relationship in the same way the 
2005 London Bombings helped solidify the US-British working relationship. These France going-ons 
are in higher gear (I've noticed) since Macron was elected but it was prepped for long ago. I was 
working for IBM under IBM project manager Cathie Skoog at the NSF when my third trimester 
pregnancy was sabotaged. The story of this sabotage and what followed is (briefly) this: 
I've long-alleged that John and Avery Gunther (whose children I used to babysit) agreed to a quid 
pro quo exchange of financial compensation for help destroying my credibility on behalf of IBM 
against whom I'd filed a 2010 EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission) charge and a 
subsequent May 2011 civil suit. 
Per the May 11, 2011 Complaint, McGuire v. John and Avery Gunther: 
3. On April 6, 2011 Mr. and Mrs Gunther, with uncontrolled greed and total disregard for the rights 
and feelings of Ms. Nadine McGuire as well as those of their children, AFG and XWG, maliciously 
and with ill-intent, wrongfully completed and executed a Complaint and Motion for Preliminary 
Injunction requesting formal protection against Ms. Nadine McGuire. 
4. Over the course of the previous few months, Mr. and Mrs. Gunther, colluding with persons against 
whom Ms. Nadine McGuire is currently furthering litigation, including but not limited to plaintiff's 
mother, Pauline Scala McGuire, and from whom they received and/or have been promised to receive 
monetary incentives, hid their relationships with said individuals, further lied about having those 
relationships in direct conversation with Ms. Nadine McGuire and Court testimony on May 4, 2011, 
and wrongfully completed and executed a Complaint and Motion for Preliminary Injunction against 
Ms. Nadine McGuire in cooperation and collaboration with said persons, resulting in the issuance of 
a Temporary Restraining Order against Ms. Nadine McGuire issued on April 6, 2011. 
- Initial Complaint, 5/11/11, McGuire v. John and Avery Gunther, Case No.:2011 CA 003703 B, DC 
Superior Court, Judge Gregory Jackson presiding 
In regards to the suit against IBM (McGuire v. IBM, 1:11CV528, US District Court of Virginia), the 
only suit in which Pauline Scala McGuire was listed as a defendant, the most important claim was 
one of "assault" that led to the 2007 death of my son. Per the filing: 
Plaintiff, Grace Nadine McGuire, realleges the allegations of paragraphs 1-65 hereof as if fully set 
forth within and further alleges: 
66. Defendant Palmisano's conduct in ascertaining the drug that was used on the plaintiff to end her 
pregnancy and take the life of her child on April 22, 2007, constitutes an intentional touching of the 
plaintiff by defendant Palmisano, and was undertaken deliberately and with actual malice towards 
the plaintiff and her unborn child. 
67. Defendant Skoog, Susan Horton and Scala's conduct in coordinating the circumstances, creating 
physical proximity and the administering of the drug to the plaintiff that ended her pregnancy and 
took the life of her child on April 22, 2007 constituted an intentional touching of the plaintiff by said 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015023 
defendants, and was undertaken deliberately and with actual malice towards the plaintiff and her 
unborn child. 
... 69. As the direct and proximate result of defendant Palmisano, Skoog, Susan Horton, and Scala's 
conduct, the plaintiff suffered a severe placental abruption, which terminated her pregnancy and 
ended the life of her unborn child, causing the plaintiff to suffer damages including but not limited to 
the loss of her child, loss of affection, grief, sorrow, extreme mental torment and emotional distress. 
- Initial Complaint, filed 5/16/11, McGuire v. IBM, et al, Case No.: 1:11CV528, US District Court of 
Virginia - Eastern Division, Alexandria, Judge Leonie Brinkema presiding 
This is to say that John and Avery Gunther helped IBM defend against an allegation of murder, and 
in this way they are accomplices to a cover-up. This is also to say that the characterization provided 
by John and Avery Gunther in their April 2011 Superior Court filing for a Protection Order against me 
and their admissions in this filing of having provided derogatory information to various persons 
and/or entities in the DC area to include school administrators, psychologists, and law enforcement, 
were more to harm me, especially in my chances to hold IBM accountable, than to protect either 
themselves or children Anjulee and Xian Gunther. 
I also long-allege that the relationship that developed from this initial quid pro quo led to John and 
Avery Gunther being similarly compensated for what turned into the sexual exploitation of their two 
daughters. For more on child sexual exploitation for the sake of personal and professional leverage, 
see especially the following: 
Nick Bryant I The Franklin Scandal & The Elite's Pedophilia Cover Up, 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=68gyGGPjmOo&t=978s  
That the NSF won't acknowledge the abuse, and won't respond even to my FOIA requests, and 
otherwise has gone to extents to protect Cathie Skoog and her co-conspirators at IBM and otherwise 
is all that was needed to have adequately turned the organization towards the interests of the Deep 
State. Now it is simply a matter of the Deep State continuing to put the NSF to use. 
* 
* 
Jeffrey Epstein in context: 
(As sent to the Wash Post) 
I send you this in response to the recent column entitled Believe in the Process by Kenneth Starr. 
Perhaps rethink any public affiliation with Ken Starr; although his demeanor on paper is undoubtably 
consoling, it is also a bit intoxifying when it would be best now if we keep our wits about us, no? 
I say this from the following perspective - Ken Starr of the Starr Report, attorney for (1) Erik Prince of 
Blackwater and (2) convicted pedophile Jeffrey Epstein in context: 
The Starr Report buried behind salacious detail of the Lewinsky affair almost nothing of Whitewater, 
Travelgate, or otherwise what many consider the murder of Vince Foster (Foster, albeit the subject 
of a different investigation was also under the purview of attorney Starr and formal investigation of 
the results of Starr's investigation were drowned out by the details of the Lewinsky affair.) This is a 
bit strange considering the Lewinsky affair was a moral failing and not an actionable criminal one as 
would have been the others had any proof surfaced. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015024 
Starr later defended Blackwater against wrongful deaths suit initiated by the families of the 2004 
Fallujah Ambush victims - "In October 2006, Blackwater hired one of the nation's heaviest-hitting 
lawyers to represent it - Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel in the 1999 impeachment of 
President Bill Clinton over the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal... Starr and his colleagues argued that 
Blackwater was "constitutionally immune" from such lawsuits and said that if the Fallujah case were 
allowed to proceed, "Blackwater will suffer irreparable harm." In the eighteen-page petition to the 
Supreme Court, Blackwater argued that there are no other such lawsuits against private 
military/security companies in state courts "because the comprehensive regulatory scheme enacted 
by Congress and the President grant military contractors like Blackwater immunity from state-court 
litigation." (pp. 234-235, Blackwater). (Author Ken Davis writes) "The four men had spent the night 
before they set off at marine base Camp Fallujah. But the men kept their distance from the 
leathernecks. Had they spoken to the marines, the Blackwater team might have learned that the 
Americans were already in the midst of a major offensive meant to assert control over the 
increasingly restive city, where elements of the radical Islamist movement and remnants of 
Saddam's army were beginning to aggressively strike back. at the American occupation" (p. 306, 
The Hidden History of American at War), and perhaps this is the only thing that makes sense of the 
fact that "Under the terms of its contract, Blackwater was supposed to supply these convoy security 
missions with two SUVs, each carrying three guards per vehicle; a driver, one man riding shotgun, 
and a third man in back with a heavy machine gun. Instead, the foursome set out that morning with 
just two men per car, each vehicle missing their rear gunner. The SUVs were only outfitted with a 
steel plate as extra armor. And the men had not been given maps." (p. 305). 
Starr went on to defend Jeffrey Epstein abasing allegations of child sex trafficking - "Along with a 
dream team of attorneys that included Gerald Lefcourt, Roy Black, and Ken Starr, [Alan Dershowitz] 
was successful in getting federal investigators not to charge Epstein with moving his victims across 
state lines and other associated crimes. The federal non-prosecution agreement Epstein's legal team 
negotiated with the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida immunized all named and 
unnamed "potential co-conspirators" in Epstein's child trafficking network, which includes those who 
allegedly procured minors for Epstein and also any powerbrokers who may have molested them" (-
http://dawker.com/flioht-loos-put-clinton-dershowitz-on-ped...). Otherwise, Epstein's eventual 18 
month sentence by the state of Florida was exceptionally light under the circumstances to include 
the number of victims who came forward with testimony. This is best understood in the context of 
children being used as a means to government-sponsored sexual blackmail and other forms of 
leverage. 
See here Erik Prince in greater context: (the similarities between him and once (secretly) favored 
child Bin Laden) 
The coordinations among global intelligence to make rather than eliminate terror as seen thru 
"assets" bin Laden (as M. Noriega before him) & Erik Prince: 
About BL: "Some CIA officers will later say that [BL] serves as a semi-official liaison between the GIP 
[Saudi intel.] and warlords like Sayyaf." 
(www.historycommons.ord/entity.isp?entity=ahmed badeeb 1) 
About EP: "Handcuffed by politics, the CIA had not been able to cultivate relationships with the key 
but messy leaders. Fortunately, Blackwater had no such political restrictions." (p. 54, Civilian 
Warriors by E. Prince) 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015025 
We see also: 
About BL: "Bin Laden established camps inside Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistan and trained 
volunteers from across the Muslim world to fight against the Soviet-backed regime, the Democratic 
Republic of Afghanistan" (Wikipedia) 
About EP: "In his autobiography, he states that during the Yugoslav Wars in the early 1990s, he 
realized the need for private training facilities for special operations... Prince moved to Virginia 
Beach and personally financed the formation of Blackwater Worldwide in 1997. He bought 6,000 
acres (24 km2) of the Great Dismal Swamp of North Carolina and set up a school for special 
operations" (Wikipedia) 
Erik Prince is (becoming) no less an Amer. intelligence success story than bin Laden (in support of 
Terrorism as Geostrategy & a New World Order - see below). In short: (we note the repeating 9/11s, 
every 11 years): "Toward a NWO" speech by Bush #41 - Sept. 11 ('90); The WTC - Sept. 11 ('01); 
Benghazi - Sept. 11 ('12). (There is rhy. & reason also 2 the rise of ISIS.) 
*** 
About training camps: 
I watched so to speak the creating of little torture pockets around the world as justified by Obama's 
desire to close Gitmo. The White House reports (2/23/16): "We'll continue to securely and 
responsibly transfer to other countries the 35 detainees already approved for transfer. This process 
involves extensive and careful coordination across our federal government to ensure that our 
national security interests are met when an individual is transferred to another country. We insist, for 
example, that foreign countries institute strong security measures." But are these not just the seeds 
of new training camps (growing concentrated and lauded violent temperaments) & was that not 
someone's exact intent? 
In real-time (and as perpetrated on captured children): 
3/19/14, sent to the now defunct FB page of D. Cheney: 
Dick Cheney, 
I wonder if it's possible that there is coordination with other countries concerning enhanced 
interrogation techniques, in the form of training perhaps? 
Specifically, here in the United States, my sense is that there may be the use of vulnerable 
populations, with the intension to gain favor with and/or intimidate others, especially members of the 
international community. 
And: 
On Saturday, June 21, 2014 6:37 AM, wrote: 
To: 
Deputy Lyddy, 
Her energy is very weak. She is physically exhausted, VERY sleep deprived, and HUNGRY. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015026 
[These were continuing experimentations in reversed-engineered SERE; the agreed upon 
techniques, taken from various regions of the world to be distributed to the various regions of the 
world, had to be deemed not torture and this is where organizations like the APA stepped in, then 
(during the Bush administration), and afterwards. See here for example: "And I think, you know, 
what's really important in the debate going forward among psychologists is the extent to which 
psychologists loaned their names and loaned their credentials and their Ph.D.s to this kind of activity 
and essentially were used by the Bush administration to provide a kind of "get out of jail free" card for 
the people who were, you know, doing these interrogations, because the logic, which I think Mark 
had mentioned, is, you know, this circular logic. So long as there are trained psychologists from 
the SERE program who are on site at these interrogations who are saying that these detainees can 
withstand this treatment, are not being harmed psychologically, then it's not torture. So, you know, 
you've got this sort of [inaudible] tortured — tortured logic, which is the phrase that has come up, but 
it's this sort of self-justifying loop in which professionals are loaning their credentials to this kind of 
activity. And you see the same thing in the Office of Legal Counsel, where you have, you know, 
lawyers loaning their credentials to approving what are clear violations of the Geneva Conventions." 
(https://www.democracynow.orq/2009/4/21/the story of mitchell lessen associates)] 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015027 
