From: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 1/24/2018 11:35:28 AM 
To: 
Subject: Re: Keep the March Alive! 
happy to help. but I thought by colorful past might be more of a burden with re conribtuions. 
On Tue, Jan 23, 2018 at 9:59 PM, Diane Ziman < 
Jeffrey --
Did you see my son's email on Sunday? 
> wrote: 
I was so proud to see him speak at the Women's March this weekend, joining thousands of 
passionate Floridians who want real change in our state, and across the country. 
But we both know that change doesn't come easy. And there are a lot of folks in Tallahassee 
that want to keep things the same as usual. 
We can't afford the status quo so they can have their way. We need leadership that will 
bring the change that so many have been marching for over the past year. 
Can I count on you to help my son bring that change to Tallahassee? 
Click here to join his campaign today, and help him do the right thing for our 
neighbors across the state.  
#ThatsMyBoy 
- Diane 
Forwarded message 
I spent the day with thousands of fellow Floridians, celebrating the one year 
anniversary of the Women's March. 
I was inspired by the crowds, their voice, and their passion. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026466 
Empowering women in the age of Trump is an essential part of moving this country 
forward. But that means moving forward on issues that have long been stalled - 
equal pay, better education, and a living wage. 
In 2018, we have the chance to move these issues forward, and I'm asking for your 
help in makincit happen. 
[:ta:4 014 ITIM:1 IN 10 17:Alefi 1 0 s s TA 
If the crowds we saw in St. Petersburg, Miami, and dozens of other cities across this 
country are any indication, we have the momentum! 
Now we need to bring it to Tallahassee. 
Sincerely, 
Philip 
Paid by Philip Levine, Democrat, for Governor 
Philip Levine for Governor 
960 Alton Road  
Miami Beach FL 33139 United States 
We're so thankful of your support, and we hope you will take the next step by signing up to 
volunteer with our campaign. If you would like to be removed from our email list, please 
click the following link and we will remove you promptly: unsubscribe  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026467 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026468 
