California woman accusing Donald Trump of raping her when she
was 13 years old to break her silence
The woman behind a potentially damaging lawsuit accusing Donald Trump of raping her when she was an
underage teen will break her silence today, her lawyer said.
The California woman, known until now as “Jane Doe,” will finally give voice to long-denied allegations
that the Republican presidential nominee sexually assaulted her in New York during a series of sex parties
hosted by alleged billionaire pedophile Jeffrey Epstein in 1994.
The woman filed a lawsuit in Manhattan Supreme Court in June. She is scheduled to speak at a Los
Angeles press conference this afternoon.
She said she was 13 at the time of the alleged attacks.
Lawsuit accusing Trump of raping girl, 13, gets December hearing
“Immediately following this rape, Defendant Trump threatened me that, were I ever to reveal any of the
details of Defendant Trump’s sexual and physical abuse of me, my family and I would be physically
harmed if not killed,” the plaintiff said in an affidavit.
12 photos view gallery
The women accusing Donald Trump of sexual assault
She says that since Trump launched his campaign and received mass media coverage, she has been
“subjected to daily painful reminders of the horrific acts.”
A similar lawsuit by the woman was dismissed by a Los Angeles Federal Court in May.
A lawyer who was representing the woman at the time, Thomas Meagher, said the original suit, which she
filed without the help of an attorney, was dismissed because it cited statutes that did not apply to the case.
Trump campaign manager: There'd be no rape if women were stronger
Alan Garten, vice president and general counsel of the Trump Organization, has said the allegations were
“categorically untrue, completely fabricated and politically motivated.”
Epstein, who is also named as a defendant, has also denied the allegations. Epstein is alleged to have
preyed on dozens of underage girls in the late 1990s and early 2000s, but pleaded guilty to soliciting a
minor in just one case in 2008.
But the woman’s new lawyer, Lisa Bloom, said the case against
Trump cannot be ignored. She has even launched a GoFundMe
page to raise money to support Trump’s sexual assault accusers.
“My law firm will proudly represent any accusers sued by Donald
Trump and crowd fund defense costs," Bloom tweeted. “Can’t wait
to take his deposition!”
Billionaire perv Jeffrey Epstein must testify in victim's
lawsuit
Bloom is the daughter of noted women’s rights lawyer Gloria
Allred.
(Florida Department of Law
Enforcement/REUTERS)
Tags:
donald trump
lawsuits
sexual abuse lawsuits
california
new york sexual assaults
jeffrey epstein
Send a Letter to the Editor
Join the Conversation:
Tweet
