From: Faith Kates 
Sent: 5/18/2016 5:45:03 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: FW: Warning: The smart money is fleeing U.S. stocks 
May 18, 2016 
Warning: The Smart Money 
Is Fleeing U.S. Stocks 
BY BILL BONNER, CHAIRMAN, BONNER & PARTNERS 
DUBLIN — The Dow dropped 180 points yesterday — or 
about 1%. 
And another clever billionaire says he is looking elsewhere 
for profits. Reuters: 
Activist investor Carl Icahn on Monday said there was a chance the stock 
market could suffer a big decline, saying valuations are rich and earnings at 
many companies are fueled more by low borrowing costs than management's 
efforts to boost results. 
"I am very cautious on equities today. This market could easily have a big 
drop," Icahn said. 
Yes, dear reader, the smart money is getting out of U.S. stocks. And here's our 
old friend Rob Marstrand explaining why: 
Right now, every measure that analyzes the S&P 500 says it's expensive. Prices 
are high relative to earnings, net assets, sales, and cash flow. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031136 
What's more, there's plenty of evidence that the main thing propping up the 
stock prices is heavy buying by the companies themselves [via share 
repurchases]. 
And now, that prop is getting kicked out from under the stock market. 
Bloomberg: 
After snapping up trillions of dollars of their own stock in a five-year 
shopping binge that dwarfed every other buyer, U.S. companies from Apple 
Inc. to IBM Corp. just put on the brakes. 
Announced repurchases dropped 38% to $244 billion in the last four months, 
the biggest decline since 2009... 
Recommended Links 
Rickards: "Warning, I've Changed My Thesis On Gold" 
I firmly believe we're at the beginning of the BIGGEST move the world 
has ever seen in gold. "Simple math" says $10,000 gold is all but certain. But, you're 
not going to believe what I have to say next... BEFORE you buy a single ounce of 
gold, read this important message. 
Last Chance: VIP Access To Doug Casey's Shocking 2016 
Forecast 
Casey fears a severe crisis is brewing. Not a currency collapse or stock market crash. 
A specific threat that could wreak more havoc than the Great Depression. That's why 
tomorrow, in an urgent broadcast event, Doug's pulling back the curtain on his 
shocking warning. And revealing how to profit from it in the months ahead, in a big 
way. Last chance to get VIP access ends tonight. Click here now for full details. 
Pareto's "Foxes" 
Although the bull market in U.S. stocks is probably near its end, the bull 
market in the Deep State shows no sign of weakening. 
Year after year, the power of the "foxes" grows. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031137 
It was the great Italian economist Vilfredo Pareto who noticed — among other 
things — that no matter what kind of government you think you have, there are 
always some crafty insiders, the "foxes," who take control of it. 
Policies are set, programs are started... decisions are made... with no consent 
of the people or their elected officials; the foxes work the angles. 
Over time, the forces of law and order become more and more corrupt.., as the 
foxes bend the entire system to do their bidding. 
Wars are started with no plan or intention to win them. Money is handed out 
for no better reason than this: They can get away with it. 
And best of all, most people are none the wiser; they believe the myths... and 
attack anyone who challenges them. 
Rip-Off 
Perhaps the biggest rip-off of all time has taken place over the last eight years 
— and in plain sight of everybody. 
Via the magic of ultra-low rates, the Fed — a nest for the wiliest and most 
cunning of the foxes — took roughly $8 trillion out of the pockets of savers and 
retirees and handed it to borrowers. 
Who is the world's biggest borrower? 
Yes... it's the Deep State itself. 
The Fed claimed to be helping to "stimulate" the economy. But you can't really 
stimulate an economy by stealing from the people who produce wealth and 
provide it with capital. 
Not surprisingly, growth has stalled. Wages have fallen. Productivity has 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031138 
stagnated. 
For 95% of the male population, real earnings are lower today than they were 
in 1973. 
Is there any wonder many of these men vote for Donald Trump — a "strong 
man" who promises to do something about it? 
But the top 5% — where the foxes are — gained income. Their wages are up 
more than 50% over the same time. 
Why? 
Because they take more and more money from the rest of us. 
More tomorrow... on a new Rebellion in Gualfin... and a measure of how big 
the Deep State has become... 
Regards, 
Bill 
Further Reading: The Deep State already controls just about every aspect of 
American life. From health care to education to the food on our tables to the 
never-ending war on terror, this cadre of cronies is pulling the strings. 
In his latest online presentation, Bill exposes how the Deep State has now 
pushed the world to the brink of an irreversible disaster. Learn more here as 
he reveals how it will all unfold... and, more importantly, how it'll change your 
life forever. 
Market Insight 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031139 
BY CHRIS LOWE, EDITOR AT LARGE 
George Soros is betting big on gold. 
As Bill reported yesterday, the billionaire speculator cut his  
firm's investments in U.S. stocks by more than one-third. 
Soros has also disclosed a new stake in the world's biggest 
gold miner, Barrick Gold (ABX). 
Soros Fund Management, his investment vehicle, bought a 1.7% of Barrick. 
This makes it Soros' biggest listed holding. 
As today's chart shows, Barrick has skyrocketed so far in 2016. 
The company's stock is up a jaw-dropping 156% year to date. 
Recommended Links 
Read this BEFORE you buy gold or gold stocks 
Dr. Steve Sjuggerud Reports: Most investors don't know this, but 
there s a "Magic Number" that appears before EVERY big move in gold and EVERY 
big move in gold stocks. What is it and is now the time to buy? Details here... 
Featured Reads 
Gold Price to Soar More Than 650%?  
One currencies expert says a "super spike" in gold prices is headed our way. 
Here, he explains what will cause it and, more importantly, how you can 
position yourself to profit. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031140 
Share Buybacks Fall Most Since 2009  
U.S. share buybacks have fallen back to levels last seen in 2099. The news 
comes amid the worst profit slump since the financial crisis.., and when 
valuations sit near 14-year highs. 
Why "Money Helicopters" Are Not the Answer  
Although "helicopter money" — code for handing out free money — is now 
being seriously discussed... what's really needed to boost growth are major 
structural reforms. The fate of the world depends on it. 
Recommended Links 
Experience the Greatest Innovation in Shaving...for Free 
You only have 9 days left to enjoy the best shave of your life for free. 
Join thousands of men from around the world who are experiencing 
the unrivaled performance OneBlade technology offers. Don't miss 
out. Act now.  
OneBlade — Rethought. Retooled. Rebuilt. 
Mailbag 
Readers continue to weigh in on the state of U.S. politics. Here are more 
responses to Monday's issue, "Trump's Biggest Deal." 
Sarah Palin will be the V.P. with Trump, and you may be surprised that they 
will have a balance budget within three years. And with Obamacare repealed, 
job killing regulations eliminated, and corporate tax rates cut, it will make the 
U.S. more business friendly. 
— Christopher F. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031141 
Good God! Anything is better than just giving it to Hilary and her 
despicable husband. 
— Judy P. 
Thanks for including Jefferson and von Mises, my favorite Galician, in 
the list of good guys. Our economy cannot be repaired without 
dismantling the Fed. As you often point out, our monetary system is 
rotten at the core, as it is based on credit. 
I read in one of these letters from a libertarian source that Jefferson 
wrote, already in 1810 or so, that he had failed to set up a free country 
as he envisioned.., and that was still more than too years before the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
On the other hand, even today, I strongly believe that if we just followed 
the Constitution, we would be okay — especially the loth amendment. I 
think that is the most important of all. 
— Chaim K. 
In the words of Warren Zevon, "Send lawyers, guns, and money; the s---
has hit the fan." 
The Democratic Party is electing a known criminal, and they don't care, 
as long as it's their criminal. They just assume all politicians are 
criminal, and the really good ones get their districts what they need. 
Would anyone let Harry Reid babysit their children? The Republican 
Party is electing anybody who is not a politician. Donald Trump just 
happens to be the best known, "anybody" who is running. 
— Wayde L. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031142 
All I can say about Bill's message on Monday is: "Amen, brother! Amen!" 
He hit every nail right on the head. 
To those self-deluding worthies who think that a Donald Trump 
presidency will solve all of America's problems I say, "Get your heads 
out of your collective a***s, because it ain't gonna happen." 
Trump will continue the policies (if we can laughably call them such) of 
the Deep State... with a dash of Adolph Hitler thrown in for good 
measure. Clinton will be no better, if not worse. 
I'm with Bill — a vote for the lesser of two evils is still voting for evil. 
However, unlike him, I will vote, but for a third-party candidate who 
doesn't have a snowball's chance of winning. A "wasted" vote is better 
than a vote for Trump or Hillary. 
— Dale A. 
I think you are correct in your assessment of the Deep State. I disagree 
in how to deal with it. 
It seems easy for the rich or the poor to walk away and state it doesn't 
matter. The poor because they do not have a choice; the rich because 
they do. For those of us in the middle we need to deal with it, lest we 
end up in the poor camp. For me, a decision that includes a less bad 
scenario is still a decision worth pursuing. 
— Rudy R. 
In Case You Missed It... 
The third part of Doug Casey's "virtual workshop" on how to turn crises into 
wildly profitable investments goes live today. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031143 
In it, Doug pulls back the curtain on his shocking forecast for America in 
2016. And how he believes you could set yourself up to profit from it in a big 
way... with just one decisive move. 
Go here to reserve your spot. 
E 
Bonner & Partners I About Bill I The Archives I FAQ  
LIKE BILL'S DIARY? 
Republish our articles on your website or blog for free. Learn How  
Have feedback? ::ontact Us  
This e-mail was sent to because you subscribed to 
this service. It's not our intention to send e-mail to anyone who doesn't want 
it. 
To cancel Bill Bonner's Diary, 
To cancel by mail or for any other subscription issues, write us at: 
Bill Bonner's Diary, 402 West Atlantic Ave., Suite 66, Delray Beach, FL 
33444011, USA 
To contact us, call , Mon-Fri: 9am-5pm or email 
feedbackabonnerandpartners.com  
Having trouble getting your e-mails? Add us to your address book. Get 
Instructions here... 
Copyright 2016 Bonner & Partners and Bill Bonners' Diary, 402 West Atlantic 
Ave., Suite 66, Delray Beach, FL 33444011, USA. All rights reserved. No part 
of this report may be reproduced or placed on any electronic medium without 
written permission from the publisher. Information contained herein is 
obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but its accuracy cannot be 
guaranteed. Bill Bonner's Diary or its editors and publications do not advocate 
the purchase or sale of any security or investment. Investments recommended 
in this publication should be made only after consulting with your investment 
advisor and only after reviewing the prospectus or financial statements of the 
company in question. Bill Bonner's Diary expressly forbids its writers from 
having a financial interest in any security that they recommend to their 
readers. Furthermore, all other employees and agents of Bill Bonner's Diary 
and its affiliate companies must wait 24 hours before following an initial 
recommendation published on the Internet, or 72 hours after a printed 
publication is mailed. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031144 
Jeffrey Kogan 
Kogan Realty Group 
155 E 55th St., Ste 6-D 
New York, NY 10022  
TEL: 
FAX: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031145 
