From: Larry Summer 
Sent: 10/27/2017 2:59:48 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: Trending Now: Friends for three decades, Trump whisperer says he is 'stunned' by president's rhetoric 
Importance: High 
Was there. Spoke well. Spent time w Softbank deputy Najeev or some such PIF guy too. 
Flying back. 
How is life among the lucrative and louche? 
Sent from my iPad 
Please direct all scheduling inquiries to my office at: 
Follow me on twitter glhsummers 
www.larrysummers.com  
From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Sent: Friday, October 27, 2017 6:51 PM 
Subject: Re: Trending Now: Friends for three decades, Trump whisperer says he is 'stunned' by president's 
rhetoric 
To: Lawrence Summers < 
saudi? 
On Wed, Oct 11, 2017 at 11:04 AM, Lawrence Summers < > wrote: 
Your pal should stay out of press. 
Public link to manafort will be a disaster. 
This is a staggering shit show. 
Sent from my iPad 
Please direct all scheduling inquiries to my office at: 
Follow me on twitter glhsummers 
www.larrysummers.com  
----------Forwarded message---------- 
From: "The Washington Post" <emailge.washingtonpost.com> 
Date: Wed, Oct 11, 2017 at 9:04 AM -0400 
Subject: Trending Now: Friends for three decades, Trump whisperer says he is 'stunned' by president's 
rhetoric 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029108 
To: "Summers, Lawrence H." 
Democracy Dies in Darkness 
Trending Now 
Wed., Oct. 11, 2017 9:01 a.m. 
Friends for three decades, Trump whisperer says he is  
'stunned' by president's rhetoric  
Billionaire Thomas J. Barrack Jr. has done what few others in Trump's orbit have 
done: He told the president, in effect, that he was wrong. "In my opinion, he's better 
than this," Barrack said. 
Trump's relationship with Barrack is one of the most important, if little understood, of 
the president's life, offering a case study of what it takes to remain close to him in a 
time of such turmoil. 
Read more »  
ADVERTISEMENT 
rt.:8:47 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029109 
You are signed up for the following breaking news alerts: Politics. 
You received this email because you signed up for breaking news alerts. Don't want to receive 
Trending Now alerts? Click here. For additional free email alerts and newsletters, or to 
unsubscribe, click here. 
We respect your privacy. If you believe that this email has been sent to you in error, or you no 
longer wish to receive email from The Washington Post, click here. Contact us for help. 
©2017 The Washington Post, 1301 K St NW, Washington DC 20071  
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029110 
