From: Carolyn Rangel 
Sent: 3/13/2018 4:21:17 PM 
Subject: Weekly Update 
Attachments: image001.png; image002.jpg; image003.png; image004.jpg; image005.png; image006.jpg; image007.jpg; 
image008.jpg 
Importance: High 
To Raise the Greater Consciousness 
JOIN DEEPAK AND FRIENDS AT 
Restore  
March 23-25, 2018 
New York City 
OPRAH & DEEPAK 
0.0 
SH E 1M iy_f 
MIND, BODY AND spiRIT ,,,-... ' • 
RECRUITMENT NOW OPEN. 
Back by popular demand. 
Starting for free on March 19, you can be a part of 
21 Day Meditation Experience, Shedding the Weight: Mind, Body and Spirit 
Learn to meditate and discover what truly nourishes your entire being. 
SFGATE 
Published on Monday, March 12, 2018 
I Never Feel Like Less of an American ... 
I never feel like less of an American than when idealistic teenagers call for gun control, and I know Congress 
won't let it happen. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026788 
I never feel like less of an American than when the richest people abandon the poorest. 
I never feel like less of an American than when a President lies, and his supporters applaud. 
Sometimes it takes the experience of shame to galvanize change, and this is such a time. Having lived too long 
on the self-image of "America is the greatest, richest, most powerful country in the world," we produced 
Trumpism, which has shattered that image. It's been a traumatic experience. Mature adults are supposed to be 
resilient in the face of difficult challenges, but a person can bend only so far. That's why one sees an outraged 
Resistance, moving from "He's not my President" to "Is this even my country?" 
If as we often hear, America isn't a place on the map but an idea, the idea is in trouble. Every day I'm reminded 
of Sinclair Lewis's 1935 novel, It Can Happen Here, which imagined the election of a Fascist to the 
presidency. As tumultuous as the Thirties were, fascism didn't happen here. In fact, the New Deal and the 
inception of a social safety net came about. But reactionary forces simmer away when they aren't at a boil. Who 
would have thought that the leader of the House in 2018 wants to weaken the social safety net by "saving" 
Social Security and Medicare? 
A survey of 117 historians recently ranked Donald Trump the worst President in history, which seems right 
after only one year in office. But what makes me feel like less of an American is knowing that 40% of my 
fellow citizens love and approve of him, who have reservations, yes, but overall want his agenda to move ahead. 
In the daily fire hose of presidential offenses, little attention was paid to the revelation by Reince Priebus, 
former White House chief of staff, that however chaotic this Presidency looked from the outside, it was worse 
on the inside--fifty times worse. 
Trumpism is the product of collective consciousness, and although one hears about "the wisdom of crowds," but 
when collective consciousness veers as close to lunacy as this administration, healing is the only answer. 
Reactionary forces, racists, white supremacists, and haters are like algae on the surface of a pond. Algae only 
appears if the pond is dank and still. When water is clear and flowing, there is no condition for algae to thrive 
in. 
The remedies for healing America are flowing with more force than before. Notions like Medicare for all, free 
higher education, and bringing huge banks to heel were semi-fantasy in the last Presidential election. Now they 
are quickly moving mainstream. Ecological awareness is growing and unstoppable. There is a possibility that by 
destroying America's self-image, Trumpism has opened the way for facing reality, which after all is better than 
living up to a self-image that is hollow at the core. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026789 
In the meantime, each person needs to remain resilient and relevant. The structure of government moves slowly, 
and it took decades of incremental moves for the reactionary right to gain the power it presently holds tight. If 
the midterm elections don't restore sanity, then collective consciousness is more wounded than we imagine. 
Without a doubt Trumpism is horrifying, but the grievances it represents are real. Address those grievances 
honestly and with a clear conscience: that's the only remedy. 
SFGATE 
Archive of Deepak's Articles published by The San Francisco Chronicle.  
AO' 
The 
CHOPRAM 
FOUNDATION 
D !GATED CONSCIC) CARING 
Archive of The Chopra Foundation published research articles: Research Papers 
4LCILCNEIC 
Published March 12, 2018 
4 easy ways to squeeze meditation into a busy day 
By Deepak Chopra and Kabir Sehgal, Contributors 
There is no doubt that you can benefit from daily meditation. It has several health benefits like reducing cortisol 
levels that cause stress, lessening blood pressure, and slowing the heart rate. Besides these physiological effects, 
it can also have a positive impact on your work life, by increasing your attention span, deepening your focusing, 
catalyzing your creativity, and making you a better listener. 
Given all these constructive outcomes, meditation should become an integral and required part of your day. But 
finding the time to actually engage in this practice can be difficult, so here are a few ways you can incorporate 
mindfulness exercises into your day. 
First, a morning ritual 
When you wake up, you're already in a quiet room in which you feel relaxed. This might be the last time you're 
surrounded by silence, so take five minutes and practice breathing in and out. Notice the sound of your breath as 
you inhale and exhale. Imagine the air rushing into your mouth and filling your lungs, and then picture it 
leaving your body and filling the room. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026790 
Instead of hitting the snooze button, sit up right and fill your morning with peace. These few minutes of 
mindfulness will prepare you for your busy day to come. Pretty soon, you'll get so used to meditation in the 
morning, that you won't want to start your day without it. 
Second, a morning commute 
If you take public transportation like a bus or the subway, you can use these moments for practicing meditation. 
To be sure, you might be disturbed by the noise of other people taking and public-address announcements. 
But by simply closing your eyes and taking long breaths, you will inevitably retreat into a cocoon where you 
pay less attention to the sounds around you and train your mind on taking deep breaths. When you finally open 
your eyes, you will feel a sense of accomplishment, that you have gone somewhere on your commute that few 
others have — to a place of higher consciousness. 
Third, a lunch retreat 
When your colleagues and clients go to lunch, you can take advantage of this quieter period of the day. If you 
have your own office, you can close the door and spend five minutes again practicing breathing in and out. If 
you work in an open-office where you have limited privacy, you could either steal away into a conference room 
or bathroom to find a few moments of peace. 
Some forward-thinking firms like General Motors, Google and Intel encourage employees to practice 
meditation, and some even have rooms and facilities on their campuses dedicated for this purpose. If you work 
at one of these companies, make sure to take advantage of these benefits. 
Fourth, a night time ritual 
Before your turn down your bed and go to sleep, try spending a few minutes sitting upright on your bed and 
practicing your breathing. You will find that when you are engaged in deep breathing exercises, it will help still 
your thoughts and prepare you for a better night sleep. A night time practice of meditation might make you feel 
better rested in the morning too. 
We are currently reading: 
This quote from my friend @mariashriver on her new book, I've Been Thinking...Reflections, Prayers, and 
Meditations for a Meaningful Life: 
"No matter how busy you are, carve out time in your day to get calm, to think, to reflect, to be present." 
vOltg. 
nkrti 
Prayers, 
fl•kr a lalooninOul Li 
How Healing Works, Dr. Wayne Jonas lays out a revolutionary new way to approach injury, illness, and 
wellness. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026791 
I r" • 
WAYNE JONAS, MD ‘', . ' 
. • - r-
. . . • .,Dic. • . , 
. • " • '„,• • .---41 
''''• .1_ •• • . 
• 4 . 
1 • • . ..0, 
• how • 
p i 
sr healing •:, 
1--,1 works 
::.:•..f' • • • 
•.• 
....-.• a. • 
GET WELL• 
AND STAY WELL .. 
* 0 ta,Ing your hidden 
0- . power to heal 0 
--'' ,, _ • • ;11 
Carolyn Rangel 
President, Deepak Chopra LLC 
Tel: 
www.deepakchopra.com 
WAnkokory ors. 
.41•014011,.1116 
THE 
HEAL1N 
SELF 
National Best-seller: The Healing Self: A Revolutionary New Plan to Supercharge Your Immunity and 
Stay Well for Life  
This email and any files transmitted with it are confidential and intended solely for the use of the individual or 
entity to whom they are addressed. If you have received this email in error please notify the system manager. 
This message contains confidential information and is intended only for the individual named. If you are not the 
named addressee you should not disseminate, distribute or copy this e-mail. Please notify the sender 
immediately by e-mail if you have received this e-mail by mistake and delete this e-mail from your system. If 
you are not the intended recipient you are notified that disclosing, copying, distributing or taking any action in 
reliance on the contents of this information is strictly prohibited. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026792 
