The Scowcroft Group 
900 17th Street, NW • Suite 500 
Washington DC 20006  
Phone 
www.scowcroft.com 
From: Kevin Neater 
Date: November 14, 2015 
Terrorism - Metrojet and Paris Mark Externalization of ISIS Threat 
It has been a consensus view in the US and Europe that the dangers posed by ISIS included metastasizing into other 
Middle Eastern and African countries -- something that Turkey has already experienced and Saudi Arabia and others 
likely face. Europe was believed to be at less risk, although as the flow of refugees from Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan 
increased, that risk has risen. 
The US and everywhere else were thought to be tertiary targets, subject to opportunistic attacks but 
almost a distraction to ISIS (cf. Al Qaeda), given its preoccupation with exploitation of Sunni/Shia 
divisions and goal of regional territorial gains. Remember, ISIS' military leadership largely is drawn from 
Sunnis who were a part of Saddam's military; they are motivated by revenge for how they have been treated by the 
Shia-dominated post- Saddam Iraqi government.) 
Last week's Metrojet bombing in Egypt, the suicide attacks Thursday in a Shiite neighborhood of 
Beirut, and yesterday atrocities in Paris all demonstrate an unexpected level of sophistication and 
effort. As a result, European countries and the US are likely to see an increase in incidents and threats that harken 
back to Al Qaeda's early agenda or are comparable to the Black September and early Hezbollah attacks of the '70s. 
What are the consequences? 
• ISIS can be expected to undertake further spectacular attacks. It has eclipsed AQ in operational capability, 
financing, and recruitment. It is not only the wealthiest terror group in history, but one with global reach 
and ambitions. (The Obama Administration's claims that ISIS is contained now look naive, and that 
characterization will haunt President Obama and Democrats next year.) 
• Expect a significant uptick in ELI, US, and Russian engagement against ISIS in the Iraq/Syria theater, but 
also in Europe. The failure to detect this elaborate scheme (no less complex because it was "low tech" -- so 
was 9/11) will prompt European security and intelligence agencies to take a much more intrusive and 
perhaps even confrontational approach both to indigenous Muslim groups and to arriving refugees. While 
that risks a feed-back loop, the instinct will be to err on the side of immediate results, not impact on 
radicalization as a social challenge. 
• Germany and other ELI nations will have to re-examine their commitments to welcome more refugees from 
the Middle East, and British opposition to allowing refugees, already strong, will harden. The scale of the 
Paris attacks will energize right-wing politics and pressure center-left governments to make threat reduction 
a higher priority than humanitarian concerns. 
CD The Scowcroft Group 
WARNING: This document and the information contained herein are intended only for the personal and confidential 
use of clients of The Scowcroft Group. If you are not an intended recipient of this document, you are hereby notified 
that you have received this document in error and that any review, dissemination, distribution, copying, quotation, or 
other use of this document without the prior approval of The Scowcroft Group is strictly prohibited. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026827 
The Scowcroft Group 
900 17th Street, NW • Suite 500 
Washington, DC 20006  
Phone 
www.scowcroft.com 
• The universal horror at what happened in Paris is likely to strengthen the determination of countries 
gathered in Vienna for the Syria conference to better coordinate and prosecute the campaign against ISIS in 
Syria and Ira. 
Bottom Line: Has risk to the United States increased? There are no indications yet that ISIS has changed its 
approach here. It encourages radicalization and lone wolf attacks but has not mounted direct attacks. But the 
Metrojet bombing has resulted in a stepped up global effort to secure American airlines. So too, targeting of 
American institutions/events — it is unlikely a coincidence that an American band was playing at the site of the largest 
causalities in Paris -- seems highly probable. This applies equally to American bases and facilities overseas, including 
embassies. 
CD The Scowcroft Group 
WARNING: This document and the information contained herein are intended only for the personal and confidential 
use of clients of The Scowcroft Group. If you are not an intended recipient of this document, you are hereby notified 
that you have received this document in error and that any review, dissemination, distribution, copying, quotation, or 
other use of this document without the prior approval of The Scowcroft Group is strictly prohibited. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026828 
