RICHARD D. EMERY 
ANDREW G. CELLI, JR. 
MATTHEW D. BRINCKERHOFF 
JONATHAN S. ABADY 
EARL S. WARD 
ILANN M. MAAZEL 
HAL R. LIEBERMAN 
DANIEL J. KORNSTEIN 
a ANDREW F. WILSON 
ELIZABETH S. SAYLOR 
KATHERINE RosENFELD 
DEBRA L. GREENBERGER 
ZOE SALZMAN 
SAM SHAPIRO 
By Email 
EMERY CELLI BRINCKERHOFF & ABADY LLP 
J. Stanley Pottinger 
.1. Stanley Pottinger PLLC 
49 Twin Lakes Road 
South Salem, NY 10590 
Email: 
AyroRNEYS Al LAw 
600 Ft Fri I MTN uR AT RocKual.F.R CENTIM 
10" FLOOR 
Now YORK, NEW YORK 10020 
TEL 
FAX: 
wmv.ccbalaw.com 
February 7, 2018 
Paul G. Cassell 
S.J. Quinney College of Law at the University of Utah 
383 S. University Street 
Salt Lake City, UT 84112 
Email 
Sigrid S. McCawley 
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP 
401 East Las Olas Boulevard, Suite 1200 
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33301 
Email: 
Laura A. Menninger 
Haddon, Morgan and Foreman, P.C. 
150 East Tenth Avenue 
Denver, CO 80203 
Email: 
Re: Giuffre v. Maxwell, No. 15 Civ. 7433 (S.D.N.Y.) 
Dear Counsel: 
As you know, this firm represents Intervenor Alan Dershowitz in the 
above-referenced case. 
CHARLES J. OGLETREE, JR. 
DIANE L. HOUK 
JESSICA CLARKE 
ALISON FRICK 
DAVID LEBOWITZ 
DOUGLAS E. LIEB 
ALANNA KAUFMAN 
EMMA L. FREEMAN 
DAVID BERMAN 
ASHOK CHANDRAN 
DANIEL TREIMAN 
It has recently come to our attention that plaintiff's counsel provided reporters 
from the Washington Post with submissions from a disciplinary proceeding pending before the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019297 
EMERY CELLI BRINCKERHOFF & ABADY LLP 
Page 2 
Florida Bar that reference information that was developed during discovery in this case. In 
keeping with plaintiff's enduring practice of insisting on selective confidentiality to bolster her 
own accusations while concealing evidence that undermines her claims, the materials provided to 
the Post include cherry-picked and misleading characterizations of evidence that is sealed and/or 
designated confidential under the protective order governing this action—to say nothing of the 
fact that it is simply false. In several instances, the materials plaintiff's counsel provided to the 
Post directly reproduce exhibits that were marked confidential in this case by plaintiff; and which 
plaintifffiled under seal before the district court. These disclosures violate both the spirit and 
the letter of the district court's orders, and appear calculated to hamstring Professor 
Dershowitz—who respects and will abide by the court's orders—in responding to the 
accusations against him. 
Most notably, the materials provided to the Washington Post repeat the 
outrageous claim that "came forward" and "corroborated" Ms. Giuffre's 
accusations against Dershowitz when she "testified under oath that she had been trafficked by 
Mr. Epstein and had had sex with Mr. Dershowitz." As plaintiff's counsel are well aware, Ms. 
testimony is marked confidential and remains under seal; indeed, plaintiff hersqf 
filed the relevant deposition transcript under seal before the district court. See ECF No. 701-1. 
Yet the materials provided to the Washington Post repeat specific details from Ms. 
sealed deposition, including specific sex acts she claims occurred with specific individuals. 
Plaintiff's counsel's selective characterization of this sealed evidence to a national newspaper is 
an outrageous violation of the district court's orders. See ECF No. 62 III 4 ("CONFIDENTIAL 
information shall not be disclosed or used for any purpose except the preparation and trial of this 
case."); see also, e.g., Taylor v. Teledyne Techs., Inc., 338 F. Supp. 2d 1323, 1343 (N.D. Ga. 
2004) (publicly summarizing and paraphrasing confidential documents violated protective order 
even without verbatim disclosure). 
This is especially so given that the totality of this individual's testimony and other 
documents produced confidentially in discovery (none of which plaintiff's counsel elected to 
describe to reporters) demonstrate that her claims are utterly unworthy of belief.' Among other 
things, in emails sent in 2016, Ms. Iclaimed that she received help from "the Russians" 
and the hacker network Anonymous in responding to a hack of her email by the CIA; that Hillary 
Clinton sent "Special Agents Forces Men" to "intimidate[]" and "ruff{] (sic) . . . up" her friend in 
an effort to "to protect [Ms. Clinton's] presidential campaign"; that she possessed video and 
photographic evidence against both Ms. Clinton and Donald Trump that she would release to 
Wikileaks and Russian media by Sunday, October 23, 2016; that she possessed video footage of 
Bill Clinton, Prince Andrew, and Richard Branson having sex with her friend which was backed 
up on "several USB sticks" that she had "securely sent . . . to various different locations 
throughout Europe"; and that another friend had—while the two "were showering together"—
showed her physical evidence that "Donald Trump liked flicking and sucking her nipples until 
1 As you know, on June 21, 2017, we, on behalf of Professor Dershowitz ,wrote to Judge Sweet 
asking that, in the event that Ms. deposition were unsealed (or its designation as 
"confidential" by the parties withdrawn), the Court permit public disclosure of her emails. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019298 
EMERY CELL! BRINCKERHOFF & ABADY LLP 
Page 3 
they were raw." Notably, in these emails, Ms. mentions Professor Dershowitz, but she 
does not allege that she was trafficked to or had sex with him. 
As you know, Ms. provided this information, on the record, to a New 
York Post journalist with the expressed hope that it would be published. Although these 
allegations, if credible, would have been the story of a lifetime — videos and eye witness 
accounts of sexual misconduct by two presidential candidates, a former president, and one of the 
world's leading entrepreneurs— the New York Post declined to publish them, presumably, and 
not surprisingly, because it did not find Ms. credible. Nonetheless, thereafter, Ms. 
represented by the same lawyers who represent the plaintiff in the above-captioned 
case, was permitted to testify that Professor Dershowitz had sex with her. These same lawyers 
have now provided documents to the Washington Post repeating the false charges, but have 
failed to provide the Post with the emails that fatally undermine them. These selective 
disclosures, and this use of the court's protective and sealing orders "as a sword," are manifestly 
improper. 
Professor Dershowitz intends to pursue all available remedies for violations of the 
district court's orders, including sanctions. That said, to remedy the gross imbalance in available 
information created by counsel's improper disclosures, we ask that the parties' counsel 
immediately agree to a stipulation, to be so-ordered by Judge Sweet, unsealing and removing the 
confidentiality designations from Ms. emails. This will allow for full public 
disclosure of these matters—where their falsity, exposed to the "sunlight" of public review, will 
be manifest—and it will permit Professor Dershowitz to respond fully to the accusations 
plaintiffs counsel leaked to the Washington Post. Only with such full disclosure can the public 
decide who is telling the truth. 
Please let us know your response to this request by noon on February 9, 2018. 
Very truly yours, 
Andrew G. Cel 1, Jr. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019299 
