IATTERSON 
de girls whom he believed were 
).f. his former employer's home, 
ler was engaging in sexual con-
and had viewed pornographic 
n computers in his employer's 
eleased from custody for further 
ez had attempted to sell to the 
viewed by an agent familiar with 
ivestigation. As Rodriguez had 
ned information material to the 
t would have been extremely use-
-osecuting the case, including the 
ation of material witnesses and 
those items been produced in 
the state law enforcement officers 
their contents would have been 
nd jury. 
redo Rodriguez was arrested again. 
ae 18, 2010, facing charges of cor-
nd documents. Dressed in a blue 
pologized for his crimes and asked 
eighteen months. 
aent that Jeffrey Epstein had gotten 
)stein, Alfredo Rodriguez served his 
did not ask for, or receive, permi5-
220 
CHAPTER 58 
Prince Andrew: 2011 
p rince Andrew also fares poorly in the wake of Epstein's 
imprisonment. 
The two men are old friends. They have been ever since 
Ghislaine Maxwell introduced the prince to her then-beau, some-
time in the 1990s. In 2000, Epstein had been invited to Windsor 
Castle to celebrate the queen's birthday. Six months later, Epstein 
flew to Sandringham, the queen's estate in Norfolk, England, for 
a party Prince Andrew threw for Ghislaine's thirty-ninth birthday. 
The prince had also visited Epstein on several occasions, in 
Palm Beach as well as in New York. And if allegations Virginia 
Roberts made in her 2015 declaration are to be believed, Epstein 
asked her to give the prince whatever he required, then report 
back with the details. 
According to the Guardian, Epstein and the prince had par-
tied together at Windsor Castle, in Saint-Tropez, and in Thailand, 
221 
JAMES PATTERSON 
FiL 
where "Andrew was pictured on a yacht surrounded by topless 
women." 
According to Roberts's lawsuit, Epstein had forced her into 
the prince's bed on Little Saint Jeff's. 
After Epstein's conviction, the British press were using another 
name for Little Saint Jeff's: Sex Island. The Guardian reported 
that the manager of two Virgin Islands—based corporations owned 
by Epstein happened to be the wife of the governor of the Virgin 
Islands. There were allegations involving a million-dollar dona-
tion that Epstein had made to the governor's reelection cam-
paign. And then there was Roberts's claim that she had been 
forced to have sex with the prince on the island as well as in 
New York and in London. 
Invariably, the photograph of Prince Andrew with his arm 
around the bare midriff of a very young-looking Virginia Rob-
erts ran with stories that appeared in the tabloids. 
"It is emphatically denied that the Duke of York had any form 
of sexual contact or relationship" with Roberts, Buckingham 
Palace spokespersons would say. "The allegations made are false 
and without any foundation." 
The prince's ex-wife, Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York, 
while on a skiing trip with the prince and their daughter Euge-
nie in Switzerland, told reporters, "He is the greatest man there 
is. It was the finest moment of my life in 1986 when I married 
him. He is a great man, the best in the world." 
"I won't stand by—because I know what it feels like to have 
salacious lies made up about you—and not support him so pub-
licly because they are just shockingly accusatory allegations, 
222 
which I don't think is right," 5 
viewed by Today host Matt La 
and as a great father and a h. 
work he does for Britain I w( 
character defamed to this leve 
But at the same time, a c( 
good man's fall from grace, a 
out of the woodwork to dish t( 
"I've seen him treat his st 
said a former aide to the princ( 
personal protection officers, 
ground and demanding they ' 
graces at all. Sure, if you're a la 
then I bet he's utterly charminl 
Despite all this, the prince had 
a photo, frequently trotted out I 
strolling in Central Park. 
Some few months before it 
businessman had secretly tap( 
five hundred thousand pounds 
"If you want to meet him ir 
"look after me, and he'll look aft 
"Once again," she said aft 
Pounded and rebounded and a1! 
most in the world: the Duke." 
Prince Andrew had had hi! 
real estate deals, sticky roman. 
merit dumps (courtesy of Julia' 
22 
ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
in a yacht surrounded by topless 
suit, Epstein had forced her into 
Jeff's. 
British press were using another 
x Island. The Guardian reported 
.slands—based corporations owned 
wife of the governor of the Virgin 
; involving a million-dollar dona-
o the governor's reelection cam-
oberts's claim that she had been 
irince on the island as well as in 
of Prince Andrew with his arm 
iery young-looking Virginia Rob-
ared in the tabloids. 
hat the Duke of York had any form 
ship" with Roberts, Buckingham 
ay. "The allegations made are false 
h Ferguson, the Duchess of York, 
.e prince and their daughter Euge-
ters, "He is the greatest man the 
)f my life in 1986 when I marri 
st in the world." 
se I know what it feels like to have 
Tou —and not support him so pub-
thockingly accusatory allegations, 
222 
which I don't think is right," she said a few days later when inter-
viewed by Today host Matt Lauer. "It's a defamation of character, 
and as a great father and a humongously good man and all the 
work he does for Britain I won't stand by and let him have his 
character defamed to this level." 
But at the same time, a certain schadenfreude attended the 
good man's fall from grace, and former associates kept coming 
out of the woodwork to dish to the press. 
"I've seen him treat his staff in a shocking, appalling way," 
said a former aide to the prince. "He's been incredibly rude to his 
personal protection officers, literally throwing things on the 
ground and demanding they 'fucking pick them up.' No social 
graces at all. Sure, if you're a lady with blond hair and big boobs, 
then I bet he's utterly charming." 
Despite all this, the prince had stuck by Epstein. There was even 
a photo, frequently trotted out by the tabloids, of the two of them 
strolling in Central Park. 
Some few months before it was taken, a reporter posing as a 
businessman had secretly taped Sarah Ferguson's demand for 
five hundred thousand pounds in return for access to the prince. 
"If you want to meet him in your business," she'd said then, 
"look after me, and he'll look after you. You'll get it back tenfold." 
"Once again," she said afterward, "my errors have corn-
pounded and rebounded and also impacted on the man I admire 
most in the world: the Duke." 
' Prince Andrew had had his troubles already—with shady 
real estate deals, sticky romances, highly embarrassing docu-
ment dumps (courtesy of Julian Assange and WikiLeaks), and 
223 
JAMES PATTERSON 
!{, 
At 
questionable ties to Tunisian oligarchs, corrupt presidents of 
former Soviet republics, and Mu'ammar Gadhafi, among other 
entanglements, many of which were explored in a Vanity Fair 
article headlined THE TROUBLE WITH ANDREW. 
"The duke has a record of being loyal to his friends," a "royal 
source" told Vanity Fair's Edward Klein. "Take his feelings for 
Sarah Ferguson. If you are a prince and you bring a woman into 
the royal life and, for whatever reasons, she's spit out, you might 
have feelings of debt toward her. The duke feels that she's been 
spattered and rejected. His close relationship with the Duchess 
of York is problematic, and there have been many problems over 
the last 5 to 10 years, all of which stem from the duchess. Some 
of the behavior of the duchess is inconsistent with being mar-
ried to, or an ex-wife of, the duke. There's no question but that 
Sarah's been a financially self-destructive element in the -duke's 
life." 
"The same kind of loyalty manifested itself last December, 
when the duke visited Epstein at his home in New York," said a 
spokesperson for Buckingham Palace. "Epstein was a friend of 
the duke's for the best part of 20 years. It was the first time in 
four years that he'd seen Epstein. He now recognizes that the 
meeting in December was unwise." 
"Don't expect to see a photo of the two of them together," 
another "royal source" would say. 
But one more story about the prince's dealings with Jeffrey 
Epstein had already emerged. 
At a dinner party at Epstein's town house, the prince dished 
about the wedding of his nephew Prince William to Kate 
Middleton. 
"He was amused that his dinner companions were so inter 
-
224 
ested in every detail," a g 
gossip columnist. "Wha 
Queen wear, would his e; 
Other guests in atten( 
dler, George Stephanopo 
Woody Allen. 
At around the same t 
Post, "I'm not a sexual pi 
ence between a murderer 
Was it so remarkable that 
in Epstein's company? Ai 
fodder for years. Randy A 
the circles that Jeffrey E 
seen as a vice. Epstein cat 
lation took hold on Wall $. 
were charging ten thousai 
you'd see things that wot 
that would make Nero hi 
guisher. When the urge 
didn't have to swap wives. 
They could simply swa 
By the same token, wa; 
like the prince would ha, 
insofar as reality is even a 
odd that he thought it wa5 
raphers strolling through 
offender—when at the tin 
ing, and trading industri 
'ATTERSON 
oligarchs, corrupt presidents of 
Au'ammar Gadhafi, among other 
h were explored in a Vanity Fair 
ITH ANDREW. 
wing loyal to his friends," a "royal 
Tard Klein. "Take his feelings for 
rince and you bring a woman into 
• reasons, she's spit out, you might 
ter. The duke feels that she's been 
)se relationship with the Duchess 
re have been many problems over 
hich stem from the duchess. Some 
;s is inconsistent with being mar-
Juke. There's no question but that 
'-destructive element in the .duke's 
y manifested itself last December, 
n at his home in New York," said a 
:n Palace. "Epstein was a friend of 
)f 20 years. It was the first time in 
stein. He now recognizes that the 
wise." 
low of the two of them together," 
say. 
t the prince's dealings with Jeffrey 
em's town house, the prince dished 
nephew Prince William to Kate 
3 dinner companions were so inte 
224 
FILTHY RICH 
ested in every detail," a guest in attendance told a New York Post 
gossip columnist. "What would Kate wear, what would the 
Queen wear, would his ex-wife Sarah Ferguson be invited?" 
Other guests in attendance that night included Chelsea Han-
dler, George Stephanopoulos,. Charlie Rose, Katie Couric, and 
Woody Allen. 
At around the same time, Jeffrey Epstein told the New York 
Post, "I'm not a sexual predator, I'm an 'offender.' It's the differ-
ence between a murderer and a person who steals a bagel." 
Was it so remarkable that Prince Andrew would have been seen 
in Epstein's company? Andrew's philandering had been tabloid 
fodder for years. Randy Andy, they called him in the UK. And in 
the circles that Jeffrey Epstein moved in, philandering wasn't 
seen as a vice. Epstein came of age just as industrywide deregu-
lation took hold on Wall Street. Junk bonds were king. Call girls 
were charging ten thousand dollars a night. And in the shadows, 
you'd see things that would have made Caligula blush. Sights 
that would make Nero himself reach for the nearest fire extin-
guisher. When the urge presented itself, the new super rich 
didn't have to swap wives. 
They could simply swap harems. 
By the same token, was it so very strange to think that a man 
like the prince would have grown so detached from reality—
insofar as reality is even a word that applies to a prince? Was it 
odd that he thought it was absolutely fine to be seen by photog-
raphers strolling through Central Park with a registered sex 
offender—when at the time large swaths of the financial, bank-
ing, and trading industries were characterized by their very 
225 
JAMES PATTERSON 
detachment from day-to-day concerns such as morality, ethics, 
and appearances? 
As for Jeffrey Epstein, one question that might be worth ask-
ing is, if he's in fact a narcissist and megalomaniac, could he 
actually believe that he's innocent? Then again, that might be the 
wrong question. Epstein did plead guilty, after all. But what if he 
simply doesn't see what he pleaded to as a crime? What if he's 
proud of his lifestyle? And if that's the case, why wouldn't Prince 
Andrew be proud to be seen in public with his dear friend Jeffrey 
Epstein? 
What if, for people like Epstein and the prince, it's just ser-
vants and masters, the way of the world? They're natural winners — 
aristocrats, after all—and if life were fair, well, how would we 
know who the real winners are? 
226 
Anna Salter: Novemb( 
hy do powerful 
and Prince And 
Dr. Anna S2-
sionally. Educated at Harv: 
psychology, she spoke, wit] 
Epstein and others like him 
"Consider a car," says : 
are brakes. We all have se? 
be a good idea to act on. I\ 
behavior. We have good br 
"Sexual offenses and in. 
times the result of a bad r 
prepubescent children or e 
children as opposed to pw 
always the result of bad bra 
)ATTERSON 
oncerns such as morality, ethics, 
luestion that might be worth ask-
Ast and megalomaniac, could he 
nt? Then again, that might be the 
ead guilty, after all. But what if he 
.aded to as a crime? What if he's 
tat's the case, why wouldn't Prince 
public with his dear friend Jeffrey 
)stein and the prince, it's just ser-
e world? They're natural winners — 
ife were fair, well, how would we 
e? 
226 
CHAPTER 59 
Anna Salter: November 2015 
hy do powerful men do the things that Jeffrey Epstein 
and Prince Andrew have been accused of doing? 
Dr. Anna Salter studies child sex offenders profes-
sionally. Educated at Harvard, with a graduate degree in clinical 
psychology, she spoke, with the benefit of hindsight, about Jeffrey 
Epstein and others like him from her office in Madison, Wisconsin. 
"Consider a car," says Dr. Salter. "There's a motor, and there 
are brakes. We all have sexual impulses we don't think it would 
• be a good idea to act on. Most of us have good control over our 
behavior. We have good brakes. 
"Sexual offenses and inappropriate sexual behavior are some-
times the result of a bad motor—for example, an attraction to 
prepubescent children or eleven-to-fourteen-year-old pubescent 
children as opposed to postpubescent individuals. But they are 
always the result of bad brakes. 
227 
JAMES PATTERSON 
on young girls delude ther 
will not harm the child. TI 
medicated it with thinking 
pathic and simply don't cai 
can't say anything about Ei 
but narcissism and psychop; 
look at concerning anyone 
bescent individuals but wh 
teens. 
"Psychopaths are often st 
seekers who are bored if not 
manipulate. They do not esu 
"They are callous and rt 
don't feel bad about harming 
"Rules don't apply to th 
They are sure they won't get 
"Antisocial psychopaths don't have brakes at all." 
Dr. Salter has never met Epstein, but she's followed his case 
closely and finds him a familiar type. She's especially struck by 
the singular nature of the relationship between powerful, wealthy 
men and vulnerable, underage women. 
"[The men] are more impressive to a fourteen-year-old [girl] 
than to, say, an adult young woman who is self-supporting and 
feels more sure of herself," she explains. 
"They are attracted to what they call freshness—barely bud-
ding sexuality and lack of sexual experience. The difference 
between them and their victims feeds their ego. 
"Great wealth and access are generally factors that make men 
feel they are entitled to whomever and whatever they want. Some 
have narcissistic personalities with inflated self-images. And of 
course, great wealth and status make such men think they can 
get away with it. Too often, they're right." 
On the other hand, Dr. Salter believes that certain condi-
tions, such as the ones exhibited by Jeffrey Epstein, might be an 
inborn character trait. 
Personality can be influenced, sometimes quite heavily, by 
genetics. 
"Virtually no one believes anymore that humans are born a 
totally blank slate," she explains. 
"We arrive with temperamental and personality variations 
that, of course, the environment can often, but not always, influ-
ence. We arrive with baggage." 
Is Epstein a born psychopath, then? 
"Psychopathy is the umbrella term for individuals who do not 
have a conscience. Pyschopaths are often narcissistic, but nar-
cissists are often not psychopathic. Some individuals who prer. 
228 
ATTERSON 
it have brakes at all." 
Istein, but she's followed his case 
x type. She's especially struck by 
)nship between powerful, wealthy 
women. 
.>,ssive to a fourteen-year-old [girl" 
roman who is self-supporting and 
explains. 
t they call freshness—barely bud-
exual experience. The difference 
as feeds their ego. 
ire generally factors that make men 
ever and whatever they want. Some 
s with inflated self-images. And of 
us make such men think they can 
ley're right." 
Salter believes that certain condi-
ited by Jeffrey Epstein, might be an 
enced, sometimes quite heavily, by 
es anymore that humans are born 
ains. 
:amental and personality variatio 
nent can often, but not always, inflty 
;.e." 
)path, then? 
a-ella term for individuals who do n 
paths are often narcissistic, but 
iopathic. Some individuals who 
228 
FILTHY RICH 
on young girls delude themselves into thinking that the abuse 
will not harm the child. They have a conscience, but they have 
medicated it with thinking errors. Others are flat-out psycho-
pathic and simply don't care if it hurts the young girl or not. I 
can't say anything about Epstein, as I have not evaluated him, 
but narcissism and psychopathy are concepts an evaluator would 
look at concerning anyone who was sexually attracted to postpu-
bescent individuals but who then began to focus on younger 
teens. 
"Psychopaths are often superficially charming, high-stimulus 
seekers who are bored if not doing something. They lie, con, and 
manipulate. They do not establish deep affective ties. 
"They are callous and remorseless individuals who simply 
don't feel bad about harming someone. 
"Rules don't apply to them because they are exceptional. 
They are sure they won't get caught." 
229 
CHAPTER 60 
Jeffrey Epstein: July 2010 
Jeffrey Epstein was done with jail, but he wasn't done settling 
suits brought by his victims. Under the conditions of his 
non-prosecution agreement, he's even paid for the victims' 
lawyers. Still, Epstein's NPA seemed to ensure that he would not 
be prosecuted again for his crimes. Double jeopardy was work-
ing in Epstein's favor. But in July of 2010, reports began to appear 
in the press: federal investigators were following other leads—
leads that could result in child-trafficking charges and a 
twenty-year sentence. 
The Florida attorney general's office refused to comment. It 
was against policy to confirm or deny the existence of an ongo-
ing investigation. One of Epstein's lawyers told the Daily Beast 
that he had no knowledge of such an investigation. "Jeffrey 
Epstein has fully complied with all state and federal require-
ments that arise from the prior proceedings in Palm Beach," jack 
230 
Goldberger said. "There ; 
not and should not be 
Epstein's complete fulfillm 
agreement with the feder 
If there was an invest 
the moment, Epstein was 
to intellectual pursuits. 
Science.com, that featur( 
with Jeffrey Epstein," "T1 
Jeffrey Epstein," "Why 
Epstein," and "An Under 
Jeffrey Epstein." The lam 
Epstein takes you to the 
knowledge to explore am 
the subtle, simple, and hic 
universe." 
"Jeffrey doesn't know shit 
art collector who has know 
"Does he like to act like he 
these academic scientists—
have any money." 
Other friends of Epstei 
liant mind for science. AnC 
than sponsor individual sc 
ences on Little Saint Jeff's. 
ference called Mindshift at 
theoretical physicist Murra 
geons, engineers, and futi 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 60 
th jail, but he wasn't done settling 
ms. Under the conditions of his 
it, he's even paid for the victims' 
emed to ensure that he would not 
times. Double jeopardy was work-
ily of 2010, reports began to appear 
itors were following other leads — 
child-trafficking charges and a 
office refused to comment It 
or deny the existence of an ongo-
stein's lawyers told the Daily Bea 
of such an investigation. "Jeffr
. 
with all state and federal requif 
or proceedings in Palm Beach, 
„ 
230 
Goldberger said. "There are no pending civil lawsuits. There are 
not and should not be any pending investigations, given Mr. 
Epstein's complete fulfillment of all the terms of his non-prosecution 
agreement with the federal government." 
If there was an investigation, nothing had come of it yet. For 
the moment, Epstein was free—free to turn his attention, again, 
to intellectual pursuits. He launched a website, JeffreyEpstein-
Science.com, that featured blog posts such as "Conversations 
with Jeffrey Epstein," "The Value of Quantum Computation to 
Jeffrey Epstein," "Why Evolutionary Biology Intrigues Jeffrey 
Epstein," and "An Understanding of Theoretical Physics from 
Jeffrey Epstein." The latter post began: "This is where Jeffrey 
Epstein takes you to the very cutting edge of the frontiers of 
knowledge to explore and discuss our basic understanding of 
the subtle, simple, and hidden [qualities] that lie beneath ... our 
universe." 
"Jeffrey doesn't know shit about science," says Stuart Pivar, the 
art collector who has known Epstein for more than three decades. 
"Does he like to act like he does? Yes. But he doesn't. But as far as 
these academic scientists—without people like him they wouldn't 
have any money." 
Other friends of Epstein's say that he truly did have a bril-
liant mind for science. And in any case, Epstein had done more 
than sponsor individual scientists. He'd also sponsored confer-
ences on Little Saint Jeff's. On his website, he announced a con-
ference called Mindshift at which Nobel laureates, such as the 
theoretical physicist Murray Gell-Mann, would mix with sur-
geons, engineers, and futurists and where professors would 
231 
JAMES PATTERSON 
discuss cognitive neuroscience, artificial intelligence, systems of 
encryption and decryption, and other topics. 
Epstein had been hosting get-togethers like this for years. 
Toward the end of Chief Reiter's investigation, in March of 2006, 
Epstein had hosted twenty top physicists—including three Nobel 
Prize winners as well as the celebrity physicist Stephen Hawking—
at a Saint Thomas symposium called "Confronting Gravity," 
which was advertised as "a workshop to explore fundamental 
questions in physics and cosmology." 
"This is a remarkable group," one of the Nobel Prize winners 
told a reporter for the St. Thomas Source. 
"There is no agenda except fun and physics, and that's fun 
with a capital F," Epstein said. 
Epstein had been especially interested in Stephen Hawking. 
Someday, Hawking had theorized, the universe would stop 
expanding and collapse, at which point time would begin to run 
backwards. Hawking believed that computer viruses were living 
things. He thought that given the size of the universe, alien life 
forms existed. He did not believe in God. But he had a vast appre-
ciation for the inner workings of the universe, and this is why 
Epstein gave Hawking a tremendous gift. He paid to have a sub-
marine modified so that it could fit Hawking and his wheelchair 
and give the scientist his first glimpse of an actual alien world—
the one that lies under the waves of the ocean. 
It was one of the most romantic, generous gestures that Jef-
frey Epstein had ever made. 
dih 
232 
Al Seckel: January 20E 
Epstein's partner in the 
Al Seckel, was knowi 
were said to have incl 
clan James "the Amazing" : 
founder Elon Musk, as we: 
Epstein would court in the c 
ladder. 
In certain Los Angeles cil 
to know. But, like Jeffrey Eps 
According to Mark Oppenhe 
and followed his career for fi 
by selling rare books and ix 
academic connections. 
"A number of these trans. 
lawsuits," Oppenheimer woi 
'ATTERSON 
, artificial intelligence, systems of 
other topics. 
get-togethers like this for years. 
's investigation, in March of 2006, 
3hysicists —including three Nobel 
brity physicist Stephen Hawking — 
m called "Confronting Gravity," 
iorkshop to explore fundamental 
.ology." 
p," one of the Nobel Prize winners 
Las Source. 
A fun and physics, and that's fun 
.ly interested in Stephen Hawking. 
orized, the universe would stop 
-Lich point time would begin to run 
I that computer viruses were living 
the size of the universe, alien life 
eve in God. But he had a vast appre-
p of the universe, and this is why 
iendous gift. He paid to have a sub-
uld fit Hawking and his wheelchair 
glimpse of an actual alien world—
ayes of the ocean. 
mantic, generous gestures that jef-
232 
CHAPTER 61 
Al Seckel: January 2012 
Epstein's partner in the Mindshift conference, a man named 
Al Seckel, was known for throwing fabulous parties that 
were said to have included the actor Dudley Moore, magi-
cian James "the Amazing" Randi, and future Tesla and SpaceX 
founder Elon Musk, as well as many of the scientists Jeffrey 
Epstein would court in the course of his own climb up the social 
ladder. 
In certain Los Angeles circles, Al Seckel was a very good man 
to know. But, like Jeffrey Epstein, Seckel was a sort of illusionist. 
According to Mark Oppenheimer, a journalist who knew Seckel 
and followed his career for fifteen years, Seckel made his money 
by selling rare books and papers, often through his social and 
academic connections. 
"A number of these transactions resulted in accusations and 
wsuits," Oppenheimer would write. "In speaking to former 
233 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Seckel acquaintances, I kept hearing variations on a scheme Mrs. 
Pearce Williams believed he perpetrated against her late hus-
band, the man Seckel said was his mentor. Seckel took books 
and promised money, or he took money and promised a book; 
but somehow, the promised party lost money." 
"He was charming, erudite, humorous," one of Seckel's marks 
told the reporter. "I lent him $75,000. When the time came to 
pay it back he didn't want to do it." 
Oppenheimer found several people whom Seckel had stiffed 
and uncovered dozens of lawsuits he'd been involved in. In 2007, 
Seckel settled a libel lawsuit against a man who'd edited his Wiki-
pedia page. Years later, Oppenheimer spoke with Seckel's lawyer, 
Nicholas Hornberger. 
"Hornberger confirmed that he'd reached a settlement for the 
case, a favorable one," the journalist wrote. "Hornberger added 
that Seckel has still not paid him for his services." 
He also interviewed Seckel's wife, Isabel Maxwell. 
Al and Isabel met on a blind date and married in Malibu in or 
"around" 2007 ("I don't keep the dates in my head," Seckel 
explained). A few years later, they moved to the South of France, 
where Seckel continued to trade in rare books and papers. While 
living in France, he was sued by a Virgin Islands company that 
accused him and Isabel of fraudulently attempting to sell rare 
books and a seventeenth-century portrait of Isaac Newton. 
Seckel had also been trying to sell papers belonging to Isa-
bel's father. 
Isabel is Ghislaine Maxwell's sister and the daughter of Rob-
ert Maxwell. 
* * * 
234 
It was an odd thing, Epste: 
PhD who, on closer inspec 
But the Mindshift confer 
in the Virgin Islands di( 
Mann was there, along wit 
coauthored books with St 
expert on artificial intell 
attended the conference, 
about it. 
"We had scientific disci 
he said vaguely. 
When Mark Oppenheir 
Seckel, Sussman "got testy" 
"I have had some dealir 
want to say what it's abot 
it, okay?" 
Today, Epstein's websites — 
JeffreyEpsteinScience.corn—
long since expired. Several r 
tributions, including New Yc 
Palm Beach, announced tha 
gifts. 
"The further I can keep 
better," said Ballet Palm Beac 
But in 2012, Epstein held 
Jeff's. Once again, three Nobe 
Stephen Hawking was also th 
twenty-one physicists—from 
If• 
'ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
:aring variations on a scheme Mrs. 
perpetrated against her late bus-
ts his mentor. Seckel took books 
)ok money and promised a book; 
fly lost money." 
, humorous," one of Seckers marks 
$75,000. When the time came to 
o it." 
al people whom Seckel had stiffed 
uits he'd been involved in. In 2007, 
;ainst a man who'd edited his Wiki-
heimer spoke with Seckers lawyer, 
at he'd reached a settlement for the 
irnalist wrote. "Hornberger added 
Lim for his services." 
Irs wife, Isabel Maxwell. 
id date and married in Malibu in or 
To the dates in my head," Seckel 
they moved to the South of France, 
ide in rare books and papers. While 
1 by a Virgin Islands company that 
raudulently attempting to sell rare 
tury portrait of Isaac Newton. 
ing to sell papers belonging to Isa-
ell's sister and the daughter of Rob-
* 
234 
It was an odd thing, Epstein's association with this self-professed 
PhD who, on closer inspection, turned out to be a bit of a grifter. 
But the Mindshift conference that Epstein and Seckel hosted 
in the Virgin Islands did take place, in 2010. Murray Gell-
Mann was there, along with Leonard Mlodinow, a physicist who 
coauthored books with Stephen Hawking. Gerald Sussman, an 
expert on artificial intelligence who taught at MIT and also 
attended the conference, said that he didn't remember too much 
about it. 
"We had scientific discussions, talked about various things," 
he said vaguely. 
When Mark Oppenheimer asked him if he'd given money to 
Seckel, Sussman "got testy" with the reporter. 
"I have had some dealings with him," Sussman said. "I don't 
want to say what it's about, because I don't feel good about 
it, okay?" 
Today, Epstein's websites— JeffreyEpsteinFoundation.com and 
JeffreyEpsteinScience.com —are down. Their domain names have 
long since expired. Several recipients of Epstein's charitable con-
tributions, including New York's Mount Sinai Hospital and Ballet 
Palm Beach, announced that they would not be accepting new 
gifts. 
"The further I can keep myself from anything like that the 
better," said Ballet Palm Beach founder Colleen Smith. 
But in 2012, Epstein held one more conference on Little Saint 
Jeff's. Once again, three Nobel Prize winners were in attendance. 
Stephen Hawking was also there. All in all, Epstein had gathered 
twenty-one physicists—from Princeton, Harvard, MIT, and CERN 
235 
JAMES PATTERSON 
(the European Organization for Nuclear Research) — to "deter-
mine what the consensus is, if any, for defining gravity." 
According to a press release issued by Epstein's foundation, 
the consensus that did emerge was that space is "not quite 
empty." 
Jeffrey Epstein: Februar 
It's Groundhog Day, and c 
ting the peak of his fame 
sode of Law & Order: SV 
own legal history. 
The setup for this episod 
girl. One who's been flown tc 
vate jet, then flown back— cc 
On the plane, she has a fn 
guy sitting next to her is try 
police get involved. 
"It was just a birthday ix 
cops via videoconference frau 
The cops ask: Whose pres 
"The billionaire. The one 1 
Does the French girl knom 
236 
?ATTERSON 
or Nuclear Research) — to "deter-
any, for defining gravity." 
se issued by Epstein's foundation, 
7ge was that space is "not quite 
236 
CHAPTER 62 
Jeffrey Epstein: February 2, 2011 
It's Groundhog Day, and once-reclusive Jeffrey Epstein is hit-
ting the peak of his fame in a ripped-from-the-headlines epi-
sode of Law & Order: SVU that tracks, eerily well, with his 
own legal history. 
The setup for this episode is the rape of a very young French 
girl. One who's been flown to New York on a very rich man's pri-
vate jet, then flown back—coach class— to Paris. 
On the plane, she has a freak-out. She thinks the middle-aged 
guy sitting next to her is trying to rape her. In Paris, the local 
police get involved. 
"It was just a birthday party," the tearful girl tells the SVU 
cops via videoconference from France. "We were his present." 
The cops ask: Whose present? 
"The billionaire. The one who owns the jet." 
Does the French girl know his name? 
237 
JAMES PATTERSON 
FT 
"Jordan. He wanted a massage. But I had to take off my 
clothes. He climbed on top of me. It hurt. I started to bleed, and 
it wouldn't stop. The doctor came." 
"Dominique," the cops say. "We're going to arrest this man. 
But we need you to return to New York so you can testify." 
"Non," says the girl. "Non! Jamais! Jamais!" 
For Epstein, there are other embarrassments, many of which 
have to do with his royal friends. The wedding of Prince Wil-
liam and Kate Middleton is approaching, and the ongoing trou-
bles of Prince William's uncle Prince Andrew keep threatening 
to derail the festivities. On March 6, a spokesperson for Sarah 
Ferguson confirms that Epstein paid off part of the seventy-eight 
thousand pounds that the duchess borrowed from a man who 
was once her personal assistant. 
The next day, headlines appear in the Telegraph and other 
British papers: DUKE OF YORK "APPEALED TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN TO HELP 
DUCHESS PAY DEBT." 
"I personally, on behalf of myself, deeply regret that Jeffrey 
Epstein became involved in any way with me," Prince Andrew's 
ex-wife tells journalists. "I abhor paedophilia and any sexual 
abuse of children and know that this was a gigantic error of 
judgment on my behalf. 
"I am just so contrite I cannot say. Whenever I can I will 
repay the money and will have nothing ever to do with Jeffrey 
Epstein ever again." 
That week, as part of the ongoing civil lawsuits against 
Epstein, Sarah Kellen and Nadia Marcinkova are both asked 
about Prince Andrew's relations with Epstein. 
238 
"Would you agree with 
Epstein used to share under; 
len is asked. 
"On the instructions of 
invoke my Fifth Amendmeni 
"Have you ever been m; 
Andrew?" lawyers ask Marci: 
"Fifth" is Nadia's simple, 
That same week, the gover 
role as Great Britain's royal t 
tenacious, and in the Telegr 
stories appear on a daily basi; 
• The Duke, His Paedophi 
Use of an RAF Base 
• Andrew's Secret Love Lifi 
• Royal Connections: Princ 
Suddenly the Talk of Nev 
• Time to Show This Right 
• An Odd Trio: The Royal 
seuse and the Fixer 
• No. 10 Struggles to Cont 
• From Royal Asset to Nati, 
• Royal Blush 
• Duke Could Be Called to' 
• It's the Company You Keep. 
• Nothing Grand About Thi 
• The Royal Family Has 1 
Choice of Friends For Yea 
• Our Less-Than-Grand Olc 
)ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ssage. But I had to take off my 
me. It hurt. I started to bleed, and 
me." 
. "We're going to arrest this man. 
Few York so you can testify." 
famais! Jamais!" 
embarrassments, many of which 
:nds. The wedding of Prince Wil-
)proaching, and the ongoing trou-
: Prince Andrew keep threatening 
larch 6, a spokesperson for Sarah 
m paid off part of the seventy-eight 
tchess borrowed from a man who 
at. 
appear in the Telegraph and other 
"APPEALED TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN TO HELP 
if myself, deeply regret that Jeffrey 
.ny way with me," Prince Andrew's 
abhor paedophilia and any sexual 
that this was a gigantic error of 
cannot say. Whenever I can I will 
we nothing ever to do with Jeffrey 
.he ongoing civil lawsuits against 
Nadia Marcinkova are both asked 
3ns with Epstein. 
238 
"Would you agree with me that Prince Andrew and Jeffrey 
Epstein used to share underaged girls for sexual relations?" Kel-
len is asked. 
"On the instructions of my lawyer," Kellen replies, "I must 
invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege." 
"Have you ever been made to perform sexually on Prince 
Andrew?" lawyers ask Marcinkova. 
"Fifth" is Nadia's simple, succinct reply. 
That same week, the government downgrades Prince Andrew's 
role as Great Britain's royal trade envoy. But the British press is 
tenacious, and in the Telegraph, the Guardian, and elsewhere, 
stories appear on a daily basis: 
ii 
• The Duke, His Paedophile Guest, and the Most Unusual 
Use of an RAF Base 
• Andrew's Secret Love Life Revealed 
• Royal Connections: Prince Andrew and the Paedophile Are 
Suddenly the Talk of New York 
• Time to Show This Right Royal Clown the Door 
• An Odd Trio: The Royal Trade Envoy, the Teenage Mas-
seuse and the Fixer 
• No. 10 Struggles to Contain Row Over Prince 
• From Royal Asset to National Liability 
• Royal Blush 
• Duke Could Be Called to Two Epstein Trials 
• It's the Company You Keep . . . The Duke's Dangerous Liaisons 
• Nothing Grand About This Old Duke of York 
• The Royal Family Has Feared a Blow-Up Over Duke's 
Choice of Friends For Years 
• Our Less-Than-Grand Old Duke of York 
239 
JAMES PATTERSON 
On March 11, a devastating undersea earthquake and tsu-
nami move Japan's main island by several feet, shifting the earth 
on its axis. The destruction is horrific and unprecedented. But 
on March 13, the Daily Mail devotes four pages and seven sepa-
rate articles to Prince Andrew. That same day, the Telegraph runs 
three pieces, and the Sunday Times runs a two-page spread head-
lined GUN SMUGGLER BOASTS OF SWAY OVER ANDREW. 
On March 14, the Guardian runs one more piece about 
Andrew's troubles. 
PRINCE ANDREW DOMINATES HEADLINES DESPITE THE EARTHQUAKE, 
the headline reads. 
Alan Dershowitz: Septen 
If the ongoing lawsuits ar 
millions left to spare. Mea 
whether Epstein trafficked 
seems to be going nowhere. 
fling to look as if Epstein is flu 
But for Epstein's friend an 
itz, things are about to get ver 
At the start of 2008, Brad 
lawyer, had filed a motion in 
of two unnamed women accth 
showitz of participating direct 
Prince Andrew had had nc 
itz had objected to the accu. 
terms. 
"There's absolutely no kern 
240 
PATTERSON 
rig undersea earthquake and tsu-
1 by several feet, shifting the earth 
; horrific and unprecedented. But 
.evotes four pages and seven sepa-
That same day, the Telegraph runs 
Imes runs a two-page spread head-
JAY OVER ANDREW. 
iian runs one more piece about 
HEADLINES DESPITE THE EARTHQUAKE, 
240 
CHAPTER 63 
Alan Dershowitz: September 2014 
If the ongoing lawsuits are costing Epstein millions, he has 
millions left to spare. Meanwhile, the FBI's investigation into 
whether Epstein trafficked underage women across state lines 
seems to be going nowhere. As 2014 draws to a close, it's begin-
ning to look as if Epstein is finally free and clear of the case. 
But for Epstein's friend and sometime lawyer Alan Dershow-
itz, things are about to get very unpleasant. 
At the start of 2008, Bradley Edwards, the Fort Lauderdale 
lawyer, had filed a motion in a West Palm Beach court on behalf 
of two unnamed women accusing Prince Andrew and Alan Der-
showitz of participating directly in Epstein's illegal activities. 
Prince Andrew had had no comment to make, and Dershow-
itz had objected to the accusations in the strongest • possible 
terms. 
"There's absolutely no kernel of truth to this story," he'd said. 
241 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Alan Dershowitz also 
are part of a plot to extol 
Edwards and Cassell have 
he's ever seen. 
"They manipulated a y 
interested in money," Den 
offense, and they will be d: 
ever made this false charge 
But then, the allegations m 
15, 2015, in a declaration 
attempt to overturn Jeffrey 
are highly disturbing. 
"I don't know this woman. I've never been in the same place with 
her. She's made the whole story up out of whole cloth." 
Bradley Edwards had already become involved in lawsuits 
against Epstein. In 2007, working with a former federal judge 
and University of Utah law professor named Paul Cassell, he had 
filed a lawsuit on behalf of another unnamed woman. Six years 
later, that case is still pending, and now, Edwards and Cassell 
petition to have the two suits combined. 
All in all, four Jane Does take part in the lawsuit. 
Jane Doe 3 is Virginia Roberts, the girl who says that Ghis-
laine Maxwell recruited her for Epstein at Trump's resort, 
Mar-a-Lago. 
Epstein had "lent" her and other young girls to prominent 
businessmen, important politicians, world leaders, and other 
powerful men in order "to ingratiate himself with them for busi-
ness, personal, political, and financial gain, as well as to obtain 
blackmail information," Roberts claims. 
She says that Epstein forced her and other underage girls to 
take part in an orgy in the Virgin Islands. 
She names Prince Andrew and Alan Dershowitz as two of the 
men she'd been forced to have sex with and claims that Der-
showitz had been "an eyewitness to the sexual abuse of many 
other minors by Epstein and several of Epstein's co-conspirators." 
This time, Prince Andrew does respond to the allegations. 
"This relates to longstanding and ongoing civil proceedings 
in the United States, to which the Duke of York is not a party," 
Buckingham Palace says in a short statement. "As such we would 
not comment on the detail. However, for the avoidance of doubt, 
any suggestion of impropriety with underage minors is categori-
cally untrue." 
242 
PATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
• never been in the same place with 
y up out of whole cloth." 
:ady become involved in lawsuits 
icing with a former federal judge 
3fessor named Paul Cassell, he had 
'other unnamed woman. Six years 
Lg, and now, Edwards and Cassell 
combined. 
ake part in the lawsuit. 
berts, the girl who says that Ghis-
r for Epstein at Trump's resort, 
id other young girls to prominent 
iticians, world leaders, and other 
Jratiate himself with them for busi-
financial gain, as well as to obtain 
.rts claims. 
2ed her and other underage girls to 
•rgin Islands. 
v and Alan Dershowitz as two of the 
ave sex with and claims that Der-
itness to the sexual abuse of many 
several of Epstein's co-conspirators." 
v does respond to the allegations. 
ding and ongoing civil proceedings 
ch the Duke of York is not a party," 
short statement. "As such we would 
However, for the avoidance of doubt, 
ty with underage minors is categ0ri-
242 
Alan Dershowitz also goes on the attack. Virginia's claims 
are part of a plot to extort him, he claims. The motion that 
Edwards and Cassell have filed is "the sleaziest legal document" 
he's ever seen. 
"They manipulated a young, suggestible woman who was 
interested in money," Dershowitz says. "This is a disbarrable 
offense, and they will be disbarred. They will rue the day they 
ever made this false charge against me." It's a vehement denial. 
But then, the allegations made by Virginia Roberts, on January 
15, 2015, in a declaration filed against the government in an 
attempt to overturn Jeffrey Epstein's non-prosecution agreement, 
are highly disturbing. 
243 
24. I also had sex 
Ranch in New Mexico I 
pool area, which was st 
25. We also had se 
U.S. Virgin Islands. 
26. Another sexual 
itz happened on Epstein 
on the plane with its. 
27. I have recently 
calling me a "liar." He i 
with me. The man I've a 
mer law professor, is th, 
least six times. Dershow 
with other underage girl 
but he is lying and denyii 
28. After years of ab 
look for a way to escape. 
hold because I wanted to) 
taken me into his clutches 
some time I believed him. 
trol, regardless of my doul 
29. I kept asking Epsi 
education. Epstein finally 
to go to Chiang Mai to h 
like my chance to escape. 
bags for good. I knew this 
break away. 
30. On September 27, 2 
to Chiang Mai, Thailand. I 
my training. But Epstein 14 
CHAPTER 64 
Declaration of Virginia Roberts Giuffre, filed on 
January 19, 2015 by attorneys representing Jeffrey 
Epstein's victims (continued) 
20. Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz was around 
Epstein frequently. Dershowitz was so comfortable with the 
sex [that] was going on that on one occasion he observed me 
in sexual activity with Epstein. 
21. I had sexual intercourse with Dershowitz at least six 
times. The first time was when I was about 16, early on in 
my servitude to Epstein, and it continued until I was 19. 
22. The first time we had sex took place in New York in 
Epstein's home. It was in Epstein's room (not the massage 
room). I was approximately sixteen years old at the time. I 
called Dershowitz "Alan." I knew he was a famous professor. 
23. The second time that I had sex with Dershowitz was 
at Epstein's house in Palm Beach. 
244 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 64 
oberts Giuffre, filed on 
rneys representing Jeffrey 
Led) 
r Alan Dershowitz was around 
witz was so comfortable with the 
t on one occasion he observed me 
em. 
iurse with Dershowitz at least six 
vhen I was about 16, early on in 
d it continued until I was 19. 
ad sex took place in New York in 
Epstein's room (not the massage 
y sixteen years old at the time. I 
knew he was a famous professor. 
at I had sex with Dershowitz was 
3each. 
244 
24. I also had sex with Dershowitz at Epstein's Zorro 
Ranch in New Mexico in the massage room off of the indoor 
pool area, which was still being painted. 
25. We also had sex at Little Saint James Island in the 
U.S. Virgin Islands. 
26. Another sexual encounter between me and Dershow-
itz happened on Epstein's airplane. Another girl was present 
on the plane with us. 
27. I have recently seen Alan Dershowitz on television 
calling me a "liar" He is lying by denying that he had sex 
with me. The man I've seen on television, described as a for-
mer law professor, is the same man that I had sex with at 
least six times. Dershowitz also knows that Epstein had sex 
with other underage girls and lent me out to other people, 
but he is lying and denying that. . . . 
28. After years of abuse and being lent out, I began to 
look for a way to escape. I had first gone into Epstein's house-
hold because I wanted to be a massage therapist. Epstein had 
taken me into his clutches through promises and talk and for 
some time I believed him. But once he had me under his con-
trol, regardless of my doubts and fears, I felt trapped. 
29. I kept asking Epstein for my promised training and 
education. Epstein finally got me a plane ticket to Thailand 
to go to Chiang Mai to learn Thai massage. This sounded 
like my chance to escape. In September 2002, I packed my 
bags for good. I knew this would be my only opportunity to 
break away. 
30. On September 27, 2002, I flew from JFK in New York 
to Chiang Mai, Thailand. I arrived around September 29 for 
my training. But Epstein was going to get something out of 
245 
JAMES PATTERSON 
this trip as well. I was supposed to interview a girl and bring 
her back to the United States for Epstein. 
31. [Left blank in the original] 
32. I did the massage training in Chiang Mai. While I 
was there, I met a great and special guy and told him hon-
estly what I was being forced to do. He told me I should get 
out of it. I told him that the people I was working for were 
very powerful and that I could not walk away or disobey 
them without risking serious punishment, including my life. 
He told me he would protect me. I had confidence [in] him 
and I saw his love and help as my opportunity to escape and 
to be with someone who truly loved me and would protect 
me. I married him and flew to Australia. 
33. I called Epstein and told him I was not coming back. 
He asked why? I said "I've fallen in love." Epstein basically 
said "good luck and have a good life." I could tell he was not 
happy. I was afraid of what he was going to do to me. I 
thought he or one of his powerful friends might send some-
one to hurt me or have me killed. 
34. From that point onward, out of concern for my safety 
and general well-being, I stayed in Australia with my hus-
band. I was in Australia from late 2002 to October 2013. To 
be clear, I was never in the United States during these years, 
not even for a short trip to visit my mother. And my absence 
from the United States was not voluntary —I was hiding 
from Epstein out of fear of what he would do to me if I 
returned to the United States. 
35. In around 2007, after not hearing from anyone for 
years, out of the blue I was contacted by someone who identi-
fied himself with a plain sounding name and claimed he was 
246 
Fr 
with the FBI. It seemed vf 
cial criminal investigatiot 
that. I hadn't heard Epste 
who this person was and t 
tell what was going on. 
36. This man said he 
The man asked if I had be 
instinct was to say nothii 
really with the FBI or any c 
questions, telling him that 
met him at a young age. Bu 
This man never offered to t 
Instead, he asked me right 
practices. I thought it woulc 
ment officer to behave tho 
uncomfortable and suspicit 
ing me. 
37. I told the man nothi 
versation probably didn't 
immediately triggered all of 
erful friends that had calls( 
If the call accomplished an: 
state of fear and told me ti• 
and had nobody officially pi 
38. I suspected that the; 
for Epstein or one of Epstein': 
if this was really an agent 14 
would have known who I wa 
ual crimes in many differet 
viewed me in a way that woul 
PATTERSON 
osed to interview a girl and bring 
for Epstein. 
riginail 
training in Chiang Mai. While I 
id special guy and told him hon-
:ed to do. He told me I should get 
ie people I was working for were 
could not walk away or disobey 
us punishment, including my life. 
ct me. I had confidence [in] him 
) as my opportunity to escape and 
ruly loved me and would protect 
v to Australia. 
d told him I was not coming back. 
fallen in love." Epstein basically 
good life." I could tell he was not 
hat he was going to do to me. I 
owerful friends might send some-
killed. 
ward, out of concern for my safety 
stayed in Australia with my hus-
rom late 2002 to October 2013. To 
United States during these years, 
P visit my mother. And my absence 
,as not voluntary —I was hiding 
of what he would do to me if I 
tes. 
Iter not hearing from anyone for 
contacted by someone who identi-
)unding name and claimed he was 
246 
FILTHY RICH 
with the FBI. It seemed very odd for someone doing an offi-
cial criminal investigation to just call up on the phone like 
that. I hadn't heard Epstein's name for years. I didn't know 
who this person was and what it was really about. I couldn't 
tell what was going on. 
36. This man said he was looking into Jeffrey Epstein. 
The man asked if I had been involved with Epstein. My first 
instinct was to say nothing because I wasn't sure he was 
really with the FBI or any authorities. I answered a few basic 
questions, telling him that I knew Jeffrey Epstein and had 
met him at a young age. But the conversation didn't feel right. 
This man never offered to come and meet with me in person. 
Instead, he asked me right off the bat about Epstein's sexual 
practices. I thought it would be strange for a true law enforce-
ment officer to behave that way, so I became increasingly 
uncomfortable and suspicious about who was actually call-
ing me. 
37. I told the man nothing more about Epstein. The con-
versation probably didn't even last three minutes, but it 
immediately triggered all of the fears of Epstein and his pow-
erful friends that had caused me to escape in the first place. 
If the call accomplished anything, it only put me bath in a 
state of fear and told me that I could be found quite easily 
and had nobody officially protecting me. 
38. I suspected that the man who called me was working 
for Epstein or one of Epstein's powerful friends. I believed that 
if this was really an agent who was investigating Epstein, he 
would have known who I was and how I fit into Epstein's sex-
ual crimes in many different places. He would have inter-
viewed me in a way that would have established his credentials 
247 
JAMES PATTERSON 
that i f I didn't say what 
I might get hurt. 
42. I promised Epste 
quiet. They seemed hap 
to [be the] way to keer 
what Epstein and his Ica 
This declaration, stria 
victims' lawsuit against t 
events that led to Dershow 
involved in spectacular lay 
Dershowitz that these all€ 
him, and a complaint by E. 
against him were false and 
and would have shown how he could provide potential protec-
tion from Epstein. That never happened. 
39. Getting a call from this supposed FBI agent made me 
scared all over again. I had left the old life of sexual slavery 
behind me and started a new life in a new country in hopes 
that the powerful people whose illegal activities I knew all 
about would never find me. 
40. Shortly after this purported FBI call, I was contacted 
by telephone by someone who appeared clearly to be working 
for Epstein. The caller told me about an investigation into 
Epstein and said that some of the girls being questioned were 
saying that Epstein had had sexual contact with them. After 
they made these allegations, the man said they were being 
discredited as drug addicts and prostitutes, but in my case, if 
I were to keep quiet, I would "be looked after." The fact that 
this call was made shortly after the supposed FBI call rein-
for[c]ed my concern that the man I had talked to earlier was 
not really working for the FBI but for Epstein. I didn't think 
that the FBI and Epstein would both be working together and 
would both get my phone number at almost exactly the same 
time. I played along and told this person that I had gotten a 
call from the "FBI" but that I didn't tell him anything. The 
person on the phone was pleased to hear [that]. 
41. A short time later, one of Epstein's lawyers (not Alan 
Dershowitz) called me, and then got Epstein on the line at 
the same time. Epstein and his lawyer basically asked again 
if I was going to say anything. The clear implication was that 
I should not. The way they were talking to me, I was afraid of 
what would happen if I didn't keep quiet. My thought was 
248 
)ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
te could provide potential protec-
• happened. 
us supposed FBI agent made me 
left the old life of sexual slavery 
v life in a new country in hopes 
tose illegal activities I knew all 
-ported FBI call, I was contacted 
o appeared clearly to be working 
me about an investigation into 
f the girls being questioned were 
sexual contact with them. After 
the man said they were being 
tnd prostitutes, but in my case, if 
I "be looked after." The fact that 
after the supposed FBI call rein-
man I had talked to earlier was 
BI but for Epstein. I didn't think 
Aid both be working together and 
mber at almost exactly the same 
d this person that I had gotten a 
t I didn't tell him anything. The 
•ased to hear [that]. 
vie of Epstein's lawyers (not Alan 
I then got Epstein on the line at 
his lawyer basically asked again 
g. The clear implication was that 
'ere talking to me, I was afraid of 
in't keep quiet. My thought was 
248 
that if I didn't say what they wanted me to say, or not to say, 
I might get hurt. 
42. I promised Epstein and his lawyer that I would keep 
quiet. They seemed happy with that and that seemed to me 
to [be the] way to keep me and my family safe. And I did 
what Epstein and his lawyer told me. I kept quiet. 
This declaration, stricken from the record by the judge in the 
victims' lawsuit against the government, also set in motion 
events that led to Dershowitz's and Roberts's lawyers becoming 
involved in spectacular lawsuits, which included a complaint by 
Dershowitz that these allegations were false and had defamed 
him, and a complaint by Edwards that Dershowitz's accusations 
against him were false and defamatory. 
249 
CHAPTER 65 
Alan Dershowitz: October 2015 
About fifteen minutes into the ripped-from-the-headlines 
episode of Law & Order: SVU that was inspired by the Jef-
frey Epstein saga, the plot takes an interesting turn: before 
officers have a chance to arrest him, Jordan, the character mod-
eled on Epstein, shows up at SVU headquarters. 
The twelve-year-old French girl raped him, Jordan says. 
Wearing a monogrammed fleece pullover like the ones favored 
by Jeffrey Epstein, he describes an evening at home. 
"The party was in full swing," he explains. "A friend said she 
wanted to give me a special present. Told me to wait in my mas-
sage room—" 
An SVU guy interrupts: "Guy has a massage room?" 
"I suffer. from chronic back pain," Jordan says. 
"While I was waiting, I fell asleep. Now, at first I thought I 
must be dreaming. I was aroused. I felt myself being manually 
250 
manipulated. Then I reme: 
enjoy myself. But then it gc 
eyes." 
"What did you see?" 
"A woman. A woman 
"A woman? Dominique 
"It was dark. I just wan. 
"But the twelve-year-o1( 
"No. She threatened me. 
she was going to scream `1Z 
"And there was nothin4 
years and a hundred pound 
"The party was going on: 
was going to look. I was nake 
It was a brilliant plot tw: 
dan to get off scot-free. 
But the plot twist that 
on the day of Alan Dershow 
Florida, courthouse was eve 
"There was a criminal extort 
Edwards and Paul Cassell's 1 
2015. 
"Your clients were involv 
Bradley and Cassell had s 
for defamation—payback fo 
law professor had made in th 
Dershowitz had counters 
and he had come armed for b 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 65 
r2015 
ito the ripped-from-the-headlines 
SVU that was inspired by the Jef-
lot takes an interesting turn: before 
st him, Jordan, the character mod-
ATIU headquarters. 
h girl raped him, Jordan says. 
fleece pullover like the ones favored 
an evening at home. 
ng," he explains. "A friend said she 
resent. Told me to wait in my mas-
:illy has a massage room?" 
k pain," Jordan says. 
ell asleep. Now, at first I thought I 
'used. I felt myself being manually' 
250 
manipulated. Then I remembered it was my present. I started to 
enjoy myself. But then it got rough, and that's when I opened my 
eyes." 
"What did you see?" 
"A woman. A woman I'd never seen before." 
"A woman? Dominique Moreau was twelve!" 
"It was dark. I just wanted her off of me. I tried to stop her." 
"But the twelve-year-old overpowered you?" 
"No. She threatened me. She said if I didn't let her ... continue, 
she was going to scream 'Rape." 
"And there was nothing that you could do? You've got forty 
years and a hundred pounds on the girl." 
"The party was going on right outside the door. I knew how this 
was going to look. I was naked. She was naked. What could I do?" 
It was a brilliant plot twist—one that ultimately allowed Jor-
dan to get off scot-free. 
But the plot twist that Epstein's own story ended up taking 
on the day of Alan Dershowitz's deposition at a Broward County, 
Florida, courthouse was even more surprising. 
"There was a criminal extortion plot," Alan Dershowitz told Brad 
Edwards and Paul Cassell's lawyer, Jack Scarola, on October 15, 
2015. 
"Your clients were involved." 
Bradley and Cassell had sued Dershowitz in Broward County 
for defamation—payback for extremely negative comments the 
law professor had made in the media. 
Dershowitz had countersued. His reputation was on the line, 
and he had come armed for battle. 
251 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"I'm thrilled they sued me," he'd told reporters. "In the end, 
someone will be disbarred. Either it will be me or the two 
lawyers." 
But if Dershowitz was swinging for the fences in his struggle 
to keep his hard-earned reputation afloat, he still had a bomb-
shell to drop. When deposed by Scarola, he proposed his own 
theory about why Virginia Roberts had named him, along with 
Prince Andrew, as one of the men who had sexually abused her 
at Epstein's New Mexico ranch, in New York City, and in Palm 
Beach. 
A theory that implicated the lawyers who were suing him in a 
much larger conspiracy. 
According to Dershowitz, Brad Edwards pressured Virginia 
Roberts into identifying Dershowitz as one her assailants. 
Dershowitz said that Edwards did this so that they could 
blackmail Jeffrey Epstein's patron Leslie Wexner for one billion 
dollars. 
Roberts lied about him, Dershowitz maintained, to give 
Wexner an idea of what would, happen to him if Edwards's 
demands weren't met. 
Furthermore, Dershowitz said, he had proof. 
252 
Excerpts from the Deposi 
October 15, 2015 
9:46 a.m. 
Q: In an interview with Hala 
broadcast on CNN Live, yo 
Do you acknowledge havir 
A: I have a superb memory, se 
My mother had an extraorc 
college and I was on the de 
to debate on the Sabbath, m 
the condition that I not tak 
I discovered that I have a 
to—generally didn't have 
ously, at the age of seventy 
have a very good memory, 
ETERSON 
he'd told reporters. "In the end, 
:her it will be me or the two 
ing for the fences in his struggle 
ion afloat, he still had a bomb-
Scarola, he proposed his own 
:rts had named him, along with 
who had sexually abused her 
in New York City, and in Palm 
lawyers who were suing him in a 
rad Edwards pressured Virginia 
witz as one her assailants. 
.rds did this so that they could 
on Leslie Wexner for one billion 
)ershowitz maintained, to give 
.1d . happen to him if Edwards's 
aid, he had proof. 
252 
CHAPTER 66 
Excerpts from the Deposition of Alan Dershowitz: 
October 15, 2015 
9:46 a.m. 
Q: In an interview with Hala Gorani on January 5 of this year, 
broadcast on CNN Live, you said, "I have a superb memory." 
Do you acknowledge having made that statement? 
A: I have a superb memory, so I must have made that statement. 
My mother had an extraordinary memory, and when I was in 
college and I was on the debate team, my mother allowed me 
to debate on the Sabbath, which was Jewish rest day, only on 
the condition that I not take notes or write. And at that point 
I discovered that I have a very good memory and don't have 
to—generally didn't have to take notes. My memory, obvi-
ously, at the age of seventy-seven has slipped a bit; but do I 
have a very good memory, yes. 
253 
Which of my clients are you swearing under oath encour-
aged Virginia Roberts to include allegations of an encounter 
with you at the New Mexico ranch? 
A: Both of them—both of your clients, both Judge Cassell 
and Mr. Edwards—were both involved in encouraging 
[their] client to file a perjurious affidavit that they knew or 
should have known was perjurious recently when they 
sought to file another defamatory allegation in the federal 
proceeding. 
Was the arrangement such that what you are charging Brad-
ley Edwards and Professor Paul Cassell with doing was sub-
orning perjury? 
A: Absolutely. If you ask me the question, I am directly charging 
Judge Cassell and Bradley Edwards with suborning perjury. I 
have been advised that Virginia Roberts did not want to 
mention me, told her friends that she did not want to men-
tion me. And was, quote, pressured by her lawyers into 
including these totally false allegations against me. Yes, your 
clients are guilty of suborning perjury. 
Who told you that Bradley Edwards pressured Virginia Rob-
erts into falsely identifying you? 
A: A friend of Virginia Roberts who called me out of the blue 
and told me that she was horrified by what was happening to 
me and that she recently had meetings with Virginia Roberts 
and Virginia Roberts had told her that she never mentioned 
me previously. That the lawyers pressured her into mention 
-
10:18 a.m. 
Q: 
JAMES PATTERSON 
* * * 
Q: 
Q: 
254 
ing me. And mentioni 
me, yes. 
10:20 a.m. 
Q: What was the name of 
A: Her name is—her first 
Q: Yes. 
A: I don't know the last no 
Q: Did you attempt to find 
A: I have her last name wr 
Q: Where? 
A: It's in my—in my notes 
Q: When did you write Ret 
A: When she—when she f 
since you've asked me tf 
At first her husband 
would not give me their n 
had a series of phone cc 
please, to tell me their na 
they told me the story in g 
her name. She asked me 
her identity without her r 
her. Called her as recently 
I want to recall—I cic 
I called her twice last ni 
reveal her complete name 
and I will be happy to givi 
top of my head. 
ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
* * 
Du swearing under oath encour-
dude allegations of an encounter 
) ranch? 
our clients, both Judge Cassell 
both involved in encouraging 
rious affidavit that they knew or 
perjurious recently when they 
.matory allegation in the federal 
that what you are charging Brad-
Paul Cassell with doing was sub-
e question, I am directly charging 
dwards with suborning perjury. I 
irginia Roberts did not want to 
is that she did not want to men-
pressured by her lawyers into 
allegations against me. Yes, your 
.ng perjury. 
Edwards pressured Virginia Rob- • 
you? 
ts who called me out of the blue, 
)rrified by what was happening tot 
d meetings with Virginia Roberts 
old her that she never mentione 
Tyers pressured her into mention 
254 
ing me. And mentioning me over her desire not to mention 
me, yes. 
10:20 a.m. 
Q: What was the name of the person? 
A: Her name is—her first name is Rebecca. 
Q: Yes. 
A: I don't know the last name. 
Q: Did you attempt to find out her last name? 
A: I have her last name written down, but — 
Q: Where? 
A: 
Q: 
A: 
It's in my—in my notes. And I could get it for you... 
When did you write Rebecca's name down? 
When she—when she first called me—let me be very clear, 
since you've asked me the question. 
At first her husband and she called me on the phone. They 
would not give me their names. But they told me [the] story. We 
had a series of phone conversations in which I asked them, 
please, to tell me their names. And after a period of time, after 
they told me the story in great detail, she was willing to give me 
her name. She asked me to promise that I would not disclose 
her identity without her permission. I have been trying to call 
her. Called her as recently as this morning and last night. 
I want to recall—I don't think I called her this morning. 
I called her twice last night to try to get her permission to 
reveal her complete name and identity. But I have the name, 
and I will be happy to give it to you. I just don't have it off the 
top of my head. 
255 
JAMES PATTERSON 
* * * 
10:23 a.m. 
Q: Would you tell us how many phone conversations [you had] 
with this person Rebecca? 
A: More than six. Probably between six and ten, maybe closer 
to ten. The first few [times] she called me, and after I got 
their number I called her a number of times. 
Q: What is her husband's name? 
A: Michael. Different last name from hers, but again. 
Q: Where do they live? 
A: Palm Beach. Or West Palm Beach, in the Palm Beach area. They 
have been friends of Virginia Roberts since she was a young child. 
Q: Were there any witnesses to any of these phone conversa-
tions other than Rebecca, Michael, and you? 
A: Yes. 
Q: Who? 
A: My wife. 
Q: When did the first conversation occur? 
A: I can probably get you specific information about that. But it 
was months ago. When the story was in the newspapers, she 
called and related the entire story to me and related to me 
that it was part of a massive extortion plot. 
10:25 a.m. 
Q: Did you take contemporaneous notes of those phone conver-
sations? 
256 
A: No. I took note of nal 
stance, no. 
Q: Have you ever made n 
any communications t 
and/or Michael? 
A: I didn't "allegedly" haw 
versations. And I don't 
tions. 
10:44 a.m. 
Q: How many phone calls d 
before she informed yoi 
ing you? 
A: She informed me the firs. 
Q: The very first conversati. 
A: Yes. 
Q: How many phone calls vv 
A: She never asked me for n 
Q: How many phone calls N 
for money? 
A: I was never asked for mo 
Q: Do you know how it is t 
tact you? 
A: They told me they went 
and left a message for me 
Oh, no; they sent me— tt 
an e-mail and asked me-
but a way to respond. A: 
kTTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
Ly phone conversations [you had] 
:tween six and ten, maybe closer 
s] she called me, and after I got 
number of times. 
e? 
e from hers, but again. 
3each, in the Palm Beach area. They 
Roberts since she was a young child. 
to any of these phone conversa-
vlichael, and you? 
ation occur? 
cific information about that. But it 
e story was in the newspapers, she 
ire story to me and related to me 
Te extortion plot. 
rieous notes of those phone conver-
256 
A: No. I took note of names, but not really notes of the sub-
stance, no. 
Have you ever made notes with regard to the substance of 
any communications that you allegedly had with Rebecca 
and/or Michael? 
A: I didn't "allegedly" have these conversations. I had these con-
versations. And I don't recall taking notes of those conversa-
tions. 
10:44 a.m. 
Q: 
Q: 
How many phone calls did you have with this person Rebecca 
before she informed you as to the reason why she was call-
ing you? 
A: She informed me the first time. 
Q: The very first conversation. 
A: Yes. 
Q: 
A: 
A: 
How many phone calls was it before she asked you for money? 
She never asked me for money. 
How many phone calls was it before her husband asked you 
for money? 
I was never asked for money, ever. 
Do you know how it is that these people knew how to con-
tact you? 
A: They told me they went to my website and got my number 
and left a message for me to call. Yeah, that's what happened. 
Oh, no; they sent me—they went on my website and sent me 
an e-mail and asked me—and the e-mail had a blank name 
but a way to respond. And so I responded with my phone 
257 
JAMES PATTERSON 
number and they called, is my recollection. That's my best 
recollection. 
10:45 a.m. 
Q: 
So from the very first conversation that you had with this 
person, you had information indicating that this person was 
informing you that Bradley Edwards had engaged in unethi-
cal conduct, correct? 
A: Let me just be very clear what she said to me. She said to me 
that she had been told directly by her friend Virginia Rob-
erts, who stayed with her overnight for a period of time, that 
she never wanted to mention me in any of the pleadings. And 
that her two lawyers in the pleadings, or her lawyers who 
filed the pleadings, pressured her into including my name 
and details. 
Did Rebecca ever suggest to you that the details sworn to by 
Virginia Roberts were false? 
She certainly suggested that, yes. She mentioned to me that 
Virginia Roberts had never, ever mentioned [me to her], 
among any of the people that she had had any contact with, 
until she—until she was pressured into doing so by her law-
yers, yes. 
So from the very first conversation, the impression you had 
was that this was a witness who could provide information 
that Bradley Edwards and Paul Cassell had acted unethically 
and dishonestly, correct? 
A: I wasn't sure she could provide the information because she 
was very reluctant to come forward. She didn't want to be 
Q: 
A: 
Q: 
258 
involved. But I knew shf 
yes, but I didn't know, 2 
prepared to be a witne. 
question. 
11:08 a.m. 
Q: Was any request made bs 
A: Yes. 
Q: Let me back up then, if 
you to do, based upon yc 
much detail as you poss 
said.... 
A: I'm not sure the request f 
or the second call.... Th 
like to talk to your wife [1 
down. I'm happy to talk 
that they would think —• 
her to think about it. An 
few days and find out 
were. 
Q: Where were you when 
when you made this phon 
A: I think I was in New York 
Q: Do you know whether t1-. 
phone or a landline? 
A: I don't remember. 
Q: Have you attempted to gat 
poses of responding to dis 
.TTERSON 
my recollection. That's my best 
'ersation that you had with this 
a indicating that this person was 
Edwards had engaged in unethi-
la she said to me. She said to me 
:ctly by her friend Virginia Rob-
vernight for a period of time, that 
n me in any of the pleadings. And 
Le pleadings, or her lawyers who 
red her into including my name 
o you that the details sworn to by 
:? 
at, yes. She mentioned to me that 
'er, ever mentioned [me to her], 
hat she had had any contact with, 
Iressured into doing so by her law-
versation, the impression you had 
ss who could provide information 
Paul Cassell had acted unethically 
ovide the information because she 
ne forward. She didn't want to 
258 
FILTHY RICH 
involved. But I knew she had provided me with information, 
yes, but I didn't know, and I still don't know, whether she is 
prepared to be a witness. I don't know the answer to that 
question. 
11:08 a.m. 
Q: Was any request made by you for a meeting? 
A: Yes. 
Q: Let me back up then, if I could, please. Because what I want 
you to do, based upon your superb memory, is to tell us in as 
much detail as you possibly can recall everything that was 
said.... 
A: I'm not sure the request for the meeting came in the first call 
or the second call.... The first call was basically, I'd really 
like to talk to your wife [Rebecca] about this. I'm happy to fly 
down. I'm happy to talk to you on the phone. And we left it 
that they would think—that she would—that he would ask 
her to think about it. And that I could call back in a—in a 
few days and find out what her—what her current feelings 
were. 
Q: Where were you when you received this phone call—or 
when you made this phone call? Sorry. 
A: I think I was in New York. 
Q: Do you know whether that phone call was made on a cell 
phone or a landline? 
A: I don't remember. 
Q: Have you attempted to gather your telephone records for pur-
poses of responding to discovery requests in this case? 
259 
JAMES PATTERSON 
A: I left that to my lawyers. I know that we did produce tele-
phone records during the relevant periods of time when Vir-
ginia Roberts knew Jeffrey Epstein, and those telephone 
records established that I could not have been at the loca-
tions and at the times that Virginia Roberts claimed to have 
had—falsely claimed to have [had] sexual contact with me. 
Q: I promise you we're going to get to those. 
A: Good. 
Q: Promise you. Along with all the flight logs that you claim 
exonerate you. 
11:11 a.m. 
Q: Let's go to the very second contact that you had with either 
Michael or Rebecca. Who initiated the second contact? 
A: I think I did. I called and got Michael on the phone. 
Q: Where did you call from? 
A: I think New York. 
Q: Tell me in as much detail as your superb memory allows you 
to recall everything that was said during the course of that 
phone conversation. 
[Dershowitz's lawyer]: Let's object to the form and the continued 
use of the word superb. He's described his memory. That's 
your characterization. Go ahead. 
Q: No, I think that that was Mr. Dershowitz's characterization, 
which I have adopted. 
[Lawyer]: Okay. Go ahead. 
A: I called, spoke to Michael. I asked Michael if he had spoken to 
his wife. She said yes, and she was still reluctant to talk to me. 
260 
F1 
Q: I'm sorry—she said yes 
spoken to his wife? 
A: He said yes. And that sh 
suggested to him that p, 
just so that she hears wh 
and remain on the phone 
wanted. And there cam 
when she did get on the 
She said she had grown I 
were very, very close frie 
Roberts came to stay wit' 
was over Halloween, and 
just the two of them. An 
Roberts confided in Reb( 
mention me in any of th( 
by her lawyer into doing 5 
the object of this effort. TI 
aire who lives in Columb 
Secret and Limited Too. I 
the name of that billionai 
yers hoped to get one billi 
dollars, or half of his net NA 
had improperly engaged ii 
Roberts. That money woul 
it to Virginia Roberts, a ti 
her lawyers were setting u 
of it to the lawyers. 
She then told me that 
to interview Virginia Robe 
order to pressure the billic 
ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
know that we did produce tele-
:levant periods of time when Vir-
y Epstein, and those telephone 
:ould not have been at the loca-
Virginia Roberts claimed to have 
ye [hadl sexual contact with me. 
) get to those. 
al the flight logs that you claim 
contact that you had with either 
litiated the second contact? 
)t Michael on the phone. 
5 your superb memory allows you 
as said during the course of that 
lect to the form and the continued 
e's described his memory. That's 
ihead. 
4r. Dershowitz's characterization, 
asked Michael if he had spoken to 
he was still reluctant to talk to me. 
260 
Q: I'm sorry—she said yes when you asked Michael if he had 
spoken to his wife? 
A: He said yes. And that she was still reluctant to talk to me. I 
suggested to him that perhaps she could talk to me briefly 
just so that she hears what I have to say. And he could listen 
and remain on the phone, and she could stop at any time she 
wanted. And there came a time during that conversation 
when she did get on the phone, and here's what she told me. 
She said she had grown up with Virginia Roberts. That they 
were very, very close friends as young people. That Virginia 
Roberts came to stay with her for a number of days, I think it 
was over Halloween, and they had gone out and had dinner, 
just the two of them. And that she confided in her; Virginia 
Roberts confided in Rebecca that she had never wanted to 
mention me in any of the pleadings, but she was pressured 
by her lawyer into doing so. Rebecca then said that I was not 
the object of this effort. The object of the effort was a billion-
aire who lives in Columbus, Ohio, and who owns Victoria's 
Secret and Limited Too. Rebecca told me she did not know 
the name of that billionaire, but that Virginia and her law-
yers hoped to get one billion dollars, b-i-l-l-i-o-n, one billion 
dollars, or half of his net worth, from him by alleging that he 
had improperly engaged in sexual misconduct with Virginia 
Roberts. That money would be divided three ways: a third of 
it to Virginia Roberts, a third of it to a charity that she and 
her lawyers were setting up for battered women, and a third 
of it to the lawyers. 
She then told me that they were trying to get ABC News 
to interview Virginia Roberts so as to give her credibility in 
order to pressure the billionaire from Columbus, Ohio, into 
261 
Q: 
A: 
Q: 
A: 
JAMES PATTERSON 
paying a large sum of money. And that I was named as an 
effort to try to show the billionaire what could happen to 
somebody if they were accused of sexual misconduct. And 
that would encourage him to settle a lawsuit or pay money in 
exchange for his name not being mentioned or revealed. I 
had no idea about this. And I didn't —I didn't ask about this. 
She just stated this. And I then corroborated the fact that she 
was absolutely correct in everything she had said to me. 
You corroborated the fact that she was absolutely correct in 
everything that she had said to you? 
That's right. 
How? 
Okay. Let me answer that question. I was very—I wasn't sure, 
so I called Leslie Wexner. I got his wife on the phone, Abigail 
Wexner. Obviously I knew that the only billionaire in Colum-
bus, Ohio, who owned Limited Too and who owned Victoria's 
Secret was Leslie Wexner. I had met Leslie Wexner on two 
occasions, I think, and his wife. I called Abigail on the phone 
and I said, "I think you ought to know that there is an extor-
tion plot being directed against your husband by unscrupu-
lous lawyers in—in Florida." And she said, "Oh, we're aware 
of that; they've already been in contact with us," which sur-
prised me. But [her statement] was confirmation of that. 
then also—I can't give you the chronology of that. I then was 
in touch with ABC and found out she was absolutely correct 
about her efforts to try to get interviewed on ABC television. 
In fact, I learned that your client, Brad Edwards, had sent a 
communication to people in the area urging them to watch 
her interview that was scheduled to be on three television 
programs. If I'm not mistaken, it was [the] Good Day Show; 
262 
Flu] 
the evening news, and th 
communication with ABC 
they would be putting fal 
allowed Virginia Roberts t 
to corroborate that. I then 
had never mentioned me 
television and publicly stai 
me in any of her descriptio 
contact with. So I was then 
was telling me the complete 
was an extortion plot direct 
nal extortion plot directed 
your clients were involved i: 
11:30 a.m. 
Q: Let's see if we can make su 
another, sir. Do you recol 
between Virginia Roberts ha 
ally abused by you on multi' 
name you as opposed to VU 
you and never having been 
those two things different in 
A: Not in the context of this cas 
that she was going to seek j-
abused her. And if she didn' 
inference is inescapable that 
that she had had any sexual 
tainly the inference I drew... 
26: 
TTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
y. And that I was named as an 
ilionaire what could happen to 
sed of sexual misconduct. And 
settle a lawsuit or pay money in 
being mentioned or revealed. I 
i didn't—I didn't ask about this. 
!..ri corroborated the fact that she 
rything she had said to me. 
at she was absolutely correct in 
to you? 
tstion. I was very—I wasn't sure, 
ot his wife on the phone, Abigail 
iat the only billionaire in Colum-
xl Too and who owned Victoria's 
had met Leslie Wexner on two 
ife. I called Abigail on the phone 
it to know that there is an extor-
.nst your husband by unscrupu-
" And she said, "Oh, we're aware 
. in contact with us," which sur-
mt.] was confirmation of that. I 
he chronology of that. I then was 
id out she was absolutely correct 
t interviewed on ABC television. 
:Rent, Brad Edwards, had sent a 
1. the area urging them to watch 
tduled to be on three television 
en, it was Ethel Good Day Show, 
62 
the evening news, and the show Nightline. . I then was in 
communication with ABC and helped to persuade them that 
they would be putting false information on the air if they 
allowed Virginia Roberts to tell her false story. So I was able 
to corroborate that. I then also corroborated the fact that she 
had never mentioned me when her boyfriend appeared on 
television and publicly stated that she had never mentioned 
me in any of her description[s] of people who she had sexual 
contact with. So I was then completely satisfied that Rebecca 
was telling me the complete truth. And that in my view, there 
was an extortion plot directed against Leslie Wexner, a crimi-
nal extortion plot directed against Leslie Wexner, and that 
your clients were involved in that extortion plot. 
11:30 a.m. 
Q: Let's see if we can make sure that we're understanding one 
another, sir. Do you recognize that there's a distinction 
between Virginia Roberts having met you, having been sexu-
ally abused by you on multiple occasions, but not wanting to 
name you as opposed to Virginia Roberts never having met 
you and never having been sexually abused by you ... ? Are 
those two things different in your mind? 
A: Not in the context of this case. Because Virginia Roberts said 
that she was going to seek justice from everybody that had 
abused her. And if she didn't want to name me, I think the 
inference is inescapable that I was not among those people 
that she had had any sexual contact with. So that was cer-
tainly the inference I drew.... 
263 
JAMES PATTERSON 
11:35 a.m. 
Q: 
A: 
Q: 
A: 
Q: 
* * * 
Who are the people that Rebecca says Virginia had previ-
ously told her that Virginia was abused by? 
I never asked her that question. 
Did you ask her was Les Wexner one of the people that 
abused Virginia? 
I told you I never asked her the question. 
Are you aware that years before December of 2014, when the 
CVRA pleading was filed, that your name had come up 
repeatedly in connection with Jeffrey Epstein's abuse of minors, 
correct? 
A: I am aware that never before 2014, end of December, was it 
ever, ever alleged that I had acted in any way inappropriately 
with regard to Virginia Roberts, that I ever touched her, that 
I ever met her, that I had ever been with her. I was completely 
aware of that. There had never been any allegation. She 
claims under oath that she told you that secretly in 2011, but 
you have produced no notes of any such conversation. You, 
of course, are a witness to this allegation and will be deposed 
as a witness to this allegation. I believe it is an entirely false 
allegation that she told you in 2011 that she had had any sex-
ual contact with me. I think she's lying through her teeth 
when she says that. And I doubt that your notes will reveal 
any such information. But if she did tell you that, she would 
be absolutely, categorically lying. So I am completely aware 
that never—until the lies were put in a legal pleading at the 
end of December 2014, it was never alleged that I had any 
264 
sexual contact with Vi 
alleged that I was a witn 
and that was false. I w, 
Epstein's sexual abuse. 
that you have falsely de] 
record is clear that I ha 
witness to any abuse, th 
anybody. And—and thi 
talk to Jeffrey Epstein w 
Virginia Roberts, which 
geous, so preposterous, 
lawyer associated with t 
ens] said he couldn't beli 
12:24 p.m. 
Q: You engaged in a mass, 
world that Bradley Edwai 
unethical lawyers who h 
you, correct? 
A: No, that's not correct. I r( 
ing the truth. My goal w 
ginia Roberts's allegatiol 
These two stories appeare 
newspaper in the world al 
of their plot and the plan 
absurdly mentioned Prin 
absurd way—that they rr 
ing to lobby prosecutors ti 
TTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
...becca says Virginia had previ-
vas abused by? 
on. 
Wexner one of the people that 
the question. 
Fore December of 2014, when the 
that your name had come up 
Jeffrey Epstein's abuse of minors, 
-e 2014, end of December, was it 
acted in any way inappropriately 
erts, that I ever touched her, that 
I- been with her. I was completely 
never been any allegation. She 
told you that secretly in 2011, but 
:s of any such conversation. You, 
us allegation and will be deposed 
on. I believe it is an entirely false 
in 2011 that she had had any sex-
nk she's lying through her teeth 
doubt that your notes will reveal 
if she did tell you that, she would 
lying. So I am completely aware 
were put in a legal pleading at the 
was never alleged that I had any 
264 
sexual contact with Virginia Roberts. I know that it was 
alleged that I was a witness to Jeffrey Epstein's alleged abuse, 
and that was false. I was never a witness to any of Jeffrey 
Epstein's sexual abuse. And I wrote that to you, something 
that you have falsely denied. And I stand on the record. The 
record is clear that I have categorically denied I was ever a 
witness to any abuse, that I ever saw Jeffrey Epstein abusing 
anybody. And—and the very idea that I would stand and 
talk to Jeffrey Epstein while he was receiving oral sex from 
Virginia Roberts, which she swore to under oath, is so outra-
geous, so preposterous, that even David Boies [a prominent 
lawyer associated with the firm representing Virginia Rob-
erts] said he couldn't believe it was true. 
12:24 p.m. 
Q: You engaged in a mass-media campaign to convince the 
world that Bradley Edwards and Professor Paul Cassell were 
unethical lawyers who had fabricated false charges against 
you, correct? 
A: No, that's not correct. I responded to press inquiries by tell-
ing the truth. My goal was to let the world know that Vir-
ginia Roberts's allegations against me were totally false. 
These two stories appeared, as far as I can tell, in every single 
newspaper in the world and on every media, which was part 
of their plot and the plan of your clients, which is why they 
absurdly mentioned Prince Andrew, claiming in the most 
absurd way—that they mentioned him because he was try-
ing to lobby prosecutors to get a reduced sentence for Jeffrey 
265 
Q: 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Epstein; they obviously put Prince Andrew in there in order 
to get massive publicity around the world. And every media 
in the world, practically, called me, from the BBC to CBS to 
ABC to CNN, and I responded to lies with the truth. 
And the truth that you attempted to convey was that Bradley 
Edwards and Professor Paul Cassell were unethical lawyers 
who fabricated false charges against you, right? 
A: The truth that I intended to convey was that the charges 
against me were false and fabricated, that I never had any 
sexual contact—
Fabricated by whom, sir? 
Please don't interrupt me.... that I never had any sexual con-
tact with Virginia Roberts. Because Professor Cassell insisted 
on conveying to the public that he was a former judge and 
that he was a professor and that he was using—improperly, 
in my view— the stationery and name of his university to 
add credibility to his claims, I felt that it was imperative for 
me to indicate that he was engaging in improper and unethi-
cal conduct. It would have been improper for me to have 
allowed his use of his credibility as a former federal judge, as 
a professor who uses, Misuses, his university imprimatur—
it was very important for me to attack the credibility of the 
messengers of the false information. And it was important 
for me to also remind the public that Bradley Edwards was a 
partner of [Scott] Rothstein, a man who is spending fifty 
years in jail for fraudulently creating a Ponzi scheme to sell 
Jeffrey Epstein cases that didn't exist. 
Q: 
A: 
266 
Scott Rothstein: 2009 
Scott Rothstein was a Ha 
parked his collection c 
house, kept a copy of 1 
portrait of Al Pacino as Mich 
of his nicknames was TPOF 
Darkness," and in private, he 
the repercussions of engagin 
Understand that I am capabl 
imagination could ever conju 
Rothstein hosted receptioi 
McCain, Bobby Jindal, Arno 
out hundreds of thousands 
contributions. He gave millio 
the Joe DiMaggio Children' 
."1-TERSON 
Prince Andrew in there in order 
and the world. And every media 
Jed me, from the BBC to CBS to 
ed to lies with the truth. 
opted to convey was that Bradley 
Cassell were unethical lawyers 
; against you, right? 
to convey was that the charges 
fabricated, that I never had any 
. that I never had any sexual con-
3ecause Professor Cassell insisted 
that he was a former judge and 
that he was using—improperly, 
y and name of his university to 
LS, I felt that it was imperative for 
.ngaging in improper and unethi-
e been improper for me to have 
bility as a former federal judge, as 
ises, his university imprimatur — 
ne to attack the credibility of the 
formation. And it was important 
)ublic that Bradley Edwards was a 
in, a man who is spending fifty 
ly creating a Ponzi scheme to sell 
iidn't exist. 
266 
CHAPTER 67 
Scott Rothstein: 2009 
Scott Rothstein was a flashy Fort Lauderdale ex-lawyer who 
parked his collection of cars in an air-conditioned ware-
house, kept a copy of the Torah on his desk, and hung a 
portrait of Al Pacino as Michael Corleone outside his office. One 
of his nicknames was TPOFD, short for "the Prince of Fucking 
Darkness," and in private, he'd say things like: "Understand that 
the repercussions of engaging me could open the gates of hell. 
Understand that I am capable of evil far beyond anything your 
imagination could ever conjure up." 
Rothstein hosted receptions for prominent politicians—John 
McCain, Bobby Jindal, Arnold Schwarzenegger— and handed 
out hundreds of thousands of dollars at a time in campaign 
contributions. He gave millions more to charitable institutions: 
the Joe DiMaggio Children's Hospital; the American Heart 
267 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Association. By all outward appearances, he could afford it: sev-
enty lawyers worked in his firm, which had offices in Florida, 
New York, and Venezuela. But Rothstein's millions actually 
came from a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme he'd been running since 
2005. 
In April of 2009, Bradley Edwards joined Rothstein's firm. 
The lawyer brought his papers along, and Rothstein showed 
those pertaining to Epstein to potential investors. In exchange 
for a lump sum up front, Rothstein said, investors would receive 
a far larger chunk of money later, which Epstein would pay in 
future settlements. 
Edwards and Rothstein both say that Edwards had no knowl-
edge whatsoever of the Ponzi scheme. (Prosecutors, and the 
Florida Bar, agree.) Edwards left as soon as he caught wind of the 
scheme, in November of 2009. But the few months he spent in 
Rothstein's company gave Dershowitz the opening he needed to 
pry open Virginia Roberts's accusations. 
It was at Edwards's insistence, Dershowitz would say, as well 
as Paul Cassell's, that Virginia Roberts added Dershowitz's name 
to the list of men she claimed had abused her. 
According to Dershowitz, he'd been pulled into a billion-dollar 
extortion plot Edwards had hatched. And for Edwards and Cas-
sell, there had been a secondary benefit: Dershowitz had helped 
to work out Epstein's confidential non-prosecution agreement 
with the government. By implicating him directly in Epstein's 
abuse of underage women, Dershowitz claimed, Edwards and 
Cassell were trying to "open up" that agreement. 
It might have been a Hail Mary pass on the part of Alan 
Dershowitz. 
But the argument had its own internal logic. 
268 
The idea that Bradley Edw 
blackmail Leslie Wexner — 
no less—sounds highly ir 
that Edwards had worked 
running his own billion-dc 
Edwards may not have 
files on Jeffrey Epstein al 
Edwards's proximity to Roth 
been as damaging as Dersh 
but it was damaging noneth 
he needed to make his argu 
argument was that it wasn't 
plot to blackmail Wexner. 1 
after was the idea that a 1 
non-prosecution agreement 
erts. That would give Edwa 
agreement open. And in that 
pressuring Virginia Roberts 
Perhaps it wasn't, in thi5 
felt reluctant to mention De 
matter of the three hundred 
she would stand to gain. Ar 
that goes to set up a charity 
Dershowitz had thrown out 
genius move on Edwards's pa 
whole psychological picture: 
for lying about Dershowitz, s 
battered women she'd end up 
rTERSON 
:arances, he could afford it: sev-
.1, which had offices in Florida, 
t Rothstein's millions actually 
;cheme he'd been running since 
dwards joined Rothstein's firm. 
3 along, and Rothstein showed 
potential investors. In exchange 
em n said, investors would receive 
cer, which Epstein would pay in 
say that Edwards had no know!-
scheme. (Prosecutors, and the 
as soon as he caught wind of the 
But the few months he spent in 
howitz the opening he needed to 
usations. 
ce, Dershowitz would say, as well 
Zoberts added Dershowitz's name 
Lad abused her. 
been pulled into a billion-dollar 
tched. And for Edwards and Cas-
y benefit: Dershowitz had helped 
ntial non-prosecution agreement 
licating him directly in Epstein's 
ershowitz claimed, Edwards and 
p" that agreement. 
1 Mary pass on the part of Alan 
wn internal logic. 
268 
FILTHY RICH 
* * * 
The idea that Bradley. Edwards and Paul Cassell were trying to 
blackmail Leslie Wexner—blackmail him for one billion dollars, 
no less—sounds highly improbable. But we do know for a fact 
that Edwards had worked with Rothstein— a man who'd been 
running his own billion-dollar con. 
Edwards may not have known that Rothstein was taking his 
files on Jeffrey Epstein and showing them to investors. But 
Edwards's proximity to Rothstein didn't look good. It may not have 
been as damaging as Dershowitz's close friendship with Epstein, 
but it was damaging nonetheless. It gave Dershowitz the opening 
he needed to make his argument. And the genius of Dershowitz's 
argument was that it wasn't necessarily predicated on an actual 
plot to blackmail Wexner. Maybe the thing Edwards was really 
after was the idea that a lawyer who helped work out Epstein's 
non-prosecution agreement was also having sex with Virginia Rob-
erts. That would give Edwards leverage in trying to crack the 
agreement open. And in that case, was it so hard to imagine him 
pressuring Virginia Roberts to add Dershowitz's name to the list? 
Perhaps it wasn't, in this scenario. Virginia would have still 
felt reluctant to mention Dershowitz. If she was, there was the 
matter of the three hundred million dollars, and then some, that 
she would stand to gain. And the three hundred million or so 
that goes to set up a charity for battered women? If the scenario 
Dershowitz had thrown out was true, that would have been a 
genius move on Edwards's part—the sort of detail that helps the 
whole psychological picture fall into place. If Virginia felt guilty 
for lying about Dershowitz, she could think of the thousands of 
battered women she'd end up helping. 
269 
JAMES PATTERSON 
All these possibilities seemed bizarre. And yet everything 
connected with Epstein's story seemed to be bizarre. 
Bill Clinton got the use of a jet out of Epstein— a trip to 
Africa. But he and Epstein weren't bosom buddies. 
As for Prince Andrew, we already know how he feels about 
women. 
But what did Dershowitz get out of Epstein, aside from 
Epstein's wise counsel on all the books he'd written? 
One advantage Dershowitz had, as he laid out his argument, 
was that when it came to Jeffrey Epstein, all bets were off. He 
didn't have to establish his innocence. All he had to do was make 
sure that the waters stayed muddy. The more complicated things 
seemed to be, the better they were for Dershowitz. 
Thanks to Jeffrey Epstein's actions, and the endlessly compli-
cated cycle of suits and countersuits those actions inspired, 
those waters were very muddy indeed. 
270 
Scott Rothstein 
On October 27, 2009, Floric 
Rothstein a voice-mail mess 
"Hey, Scott," the goveri 
Greek governor. Hope you'i 
touch base and let you knoN 
twenty-fourth, and it is gc 
brother.... Really enjoyed 
watch[ing] a little football a 
me. We love you. Take care. 
That same day, Rothstei 
Casablanca, Morocco. For a 
running. But a few days la( 
Fort Lauderdale. The Ponzi 
The moment he did, he s 
for a lenient sentence. Roths 
the list included people at hi 
CTERSON 
bizarre. And yet everything 
:emed to be bizarre. 
a jet out of Epstein— a trip to 
:t bosom buddies. 
ready know how he feels about 
;et out of Epstein, aside from 
books he'd written? 
lad, as he laid out his argument, 
Epstein, all bets were off. He 
-.:ence. All he had to do was make 
dy. The more complicated things 
:re for Dershowitz. 
ctions, and the endlessly compli-
tersuits those actions inspired, 
ndeed. 
270 
CODA 
Scott Rothstein 
On October 27, 2009, Florida's governor, Charlie Crist, left Scott 
Rothstein a voice-mail message. 
"Hey, Scott," the governor said. "It's Charlie, your favorite 
Greek governor. Hope you're doing well, buddy. Just wanted to 
touch base and let you know I'm working Versace for November 
twenty-fourth, and it is going amazingly well—unbelievable, 
brother.... Really enjoyed again seeing you and Kimmie and 
watch[ing] a little football and best to you guys from Carol and 
me. We love you. Take care. Bye-bye." 
That same day, Rothstein took a chartered Gulfstream V to 
Casablanca, Morocco. For a while, it seemed as if Rothstein was 
running. But a few days later, the same Gulfstream returned to 
Fort Lauderdale. The Ponzi king had decided to turn himself in. 
The moment he did, he started to sing like a canary in return 
for a lenient sentence. Rothstein gave up dozens of associates — 
the list included people at his law firm, law enforcement officers, 
271 
JAMES PATTERSON 
and his own wife, Kimmie, who was arrested for hiding more 
than one million dollars' worth of jewelry. 
All in all, more than thirty people involved in Rothstein's 
schemes were arrested and sentenced. 
Thanks, in part, to his cooperation with the feds, his was the 
only Ponzi scheme in history in which all the victims recovered 
their money. In return, Rothstein was put into a witness protec-
tion program and is serving his fifty-year sentence anonymously, 
in an undisclosed prison location. 
Alan Dershowitz 
On November 10, 2015, Alan Dershowitz arrived at Shriver Hall, 
on the campus of Johns Hopkins University, in Baltimore, to talk 
about the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
"The outlines for peace are so obvious," he said. "There has 
to be a two-state solution." 
Fifteen minutes into the talk, a group of women—students 
belonging to a group called Hopkins Feminists—stood up in 
protest. Dressed all in black, with duct tape over their mouths, 
they held up a sign and marched out of the hall. 
YOU ARE RAPE CULTURE, the sign read. 
Afterward, a reporter for the student paper asked Dershowitz 
about Jeffrey Epstein and Epstein's victims. Wasn't it true that Der-
showitz had implied that one of those victims was "asking for it?" 
"I'm a defense attorney," Dershowitz replied. "I have an obliga-
tion under the Constitution to provide a full and zealous defense to 
my clients. If I have failed to do all the things you had just listed, I - 
could be disbarred. I could be found incompetent as counsel." 
272 
He asked the reporter, 
on the websites, look on 
woman who was accusing 
disprove many of the cha 
prove the charges against 
rape is a heinous thing to d 
person who has been fals 
rape victims because it rm 
money. Our country, unlit 
defended, and I'm going to 
ents are guilty or innocent 
have been guilty. They dese 
else. I'm very proud of wh 
don't like the fact that I got 
The suits and countersuits 
Dershowitz filed against eac 
2016—reaching a crescend 
the plot to blackmail Les 
involved agreed to settle, i 
"Edwards and Cassell ackn( 
filed sexual misconduct acci 
sexual misconduct accusatic 
ing all exhibits) are hereby 
draws his accusations ti 
unethically. Neither Edward 
intention of repeating the 
Dershowitz also hired form( 
an independent investigatior 
LTTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
to was arrested for hiding more 
of jewelry. 
r people involved in Rothstein's 
:.ration with the feds, his was the 
which all the victims recovered 
in was put into a witness protec-
fifty-year sentence anonymously, 
n. 
nshowitz arrived at Shriver Hall, 
s University, in Baltimore, to talk 
so obvious," he said. "There has 
k, a group of women—students 
opkins Feminists—stood up in 
ith duct tape over their mouths, 
d out of the hall. 
n read. 
!. student paper asked Dershowitz 
s victims. Wasn't it true that Der-
those victims was "asking for it?" 
showitz replied. "I have an obliga-
ovide a full and zealous defense to 
all the things you had just listed, I 
und incompetent as counsel." 
?.72 
He asked the reporter, "Would any defense lawyer not look 
on the websites, look on social networks, find out what the 
woman who was accusing my client was doing? We were able to 
disprove many of the charges, just like how I was able to dis-
prove the charges against me. Falsely charging somebody with 
rape is a heinous thing to do. First of all, it creates horrors for the 
person who has been falsely accused. Second, it so hurts real 
rape victims because it makes it clear that some women lie for 
money. Our country, unlike others, requires that everybody be 
defended, and I'm going to continue to do that whether my cli-
ents are guilty or innocent. Let me tell you, most of my clients 
have been guilty. They deserve a zealous defense just as anybody 
else. I'm very proud of what I did for Jeffrey Epstein. If people 
don't like the fact that I got a 'good deal,' that's the job I do." 
The suits and countersuits Paul Cassell, Bradley Edwards, and 
Dershowitz filed against each other dragged on into the spring of 
2016 —reaching a crescendo with Dershowitz's argument about 
the plot to blackmail Les Wexner. But on April 8, all the parties 
involved agreed to settle, issuing a joint statement that read: 
"Edwards and Cassell acknowledge that it was a mistake to have 
filed sexual misconduct accusations against Dershowitz; and the 
sexual misconduct accusations made in all public filings (includ-
ing all exhibits) are hereby withdrawn. Dershowitz also with-
draws his accusations that Edwards and Cassell acted 
unethically. Neither Edwards, Cassell, nor Dershowitz have any 
intention of repeating the allegations against one another." 
Dershowitz also hired former FBI director Louis J. Freeh to do 
an independent investigation. Freeh concluded that the evidence 
273 
JAMES PATTERSON 
his team reviewed refuted the accusations of sexual misconduct 
against Dershowitz. 
For Alan Dershowitz, the long nightmare he'd had to endure as a 
result of his friendship with Jeffrey Epstein finally seemed to be over. 
Ghislaine Maxwell 
Trying to put her troubles with Epstein behind her, Ghislaine 
Maxwell took up a new calling. 
"She's doing something to save the oceans now," a socialite says 
over the din of cocktail-party chatter at a private Palm Beach Club. 
Maxwell's nonprofit, the TerraMar Project, describes itself as 
"a platform for citizenship and transformation of the high seas." 
Its focus is on cleaning up the eight million metric tons of plastic 
debris —garbage— that are dumped into the world's oceans 
each year. (Sources say that an earlier enterprise, the Seed Media 
Group, was funded by Jeffrey Epstein in 2005 to the tune of two 
million dollars.) 
"Is anybody here staying awake at night because they're 
frightened about the ocean?" she asks in 2014 at a TEDx talk in 
Charlottesville, Virginia. "Are you scared about what could hap-
pen? Are you trying to think about what could you do that would 
help the ocean and all its myriad of troubles?" 
But although her efforts on behalf of the environment are sin-
cere and articulate, Ghislaine still appears in the society pages. 
In 2010, she attends Chelsea Clinton's wedding in Rhine-
beck, New York. 
In 2014, New York journalist Richard Johnson reports that 
she's newly back from running in an Iditarod dogsled race in 
274 
Alaska. "It's hard to top C 
department," he writes. 
Upon her return, the r 
International hosts Maxv 
chef for Madame Chiang I 
Sources say that Max\ 
ship with the Clintons. Sh 
Maxwell has repeatedly di 
Roberts—and continues 
Maxwell says she's had no ( 
involving Virginia Roberts 
frey Epstein. She claims th 
as a "sex slave" has change 
each telling, Virginia adds s 
figures. Nevertheless, legal 
In 2015, Virginia Robe' 
woman she says recruited he 
Way. In January of 2016, Rc 
that a defamation suit filed al 
predator, was directly relevan 
Maxwell filed an answer in ci 
and accusing Roberts of fabri( 
As of this writing, the si 
Prince Andrew 
In January of 2016, Sunningh 
that Sarah Ferguson and I 
English county of Berkshire. 
ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
iccusations of sexual misconduct 
g nightmare he'd had to endure as a 
7 Epstein finally seemed to be over. 
1h Epstein behind her, Ghislaine 
ve the oceans now," a socialite says 
atter at a private Palm Beach Club. 
rraMar Project, describes itself as 
transformation of the high seas." 
tight million metric tons of plastic 
.umped into the world's oceans 
earlier enterprise, the Seed Media 
7..pstein in 2005 to the tune of two 
awake at night because they're 
he asks in 2014 at a TEDx talk in 
you scared about what could hap-
)out what could you do that would 
ad of troubles?" 
behalf of the environment are sin-
ill appears in the society pages. 
.sea Clinton's wedding in Rhine 
list Richard Johnson reports that 
ig in an Iditarod dogsled race in 
274 
Alaska. "It's hard to top Ghislaine Maxwell in the globe-trotting 
department," he writes. 
Upon her return, the president of the China Arts Foundation 
International hosts Maxwell at a dinner cooked by the former 
chef for Madame Chiang Kai-shek. 
Sources say that Maxwell still maintains her warm relation-
ship with the Clintons. She was never charged with a crime. And 
Maxwell has repeatedly denied all allegations made by Virginia 
Roberts—and continues to do so today. Through her lawyer, 
Maxwell says she's had no connection to any criminal misconduct 
involving Virginia Roberts (or any other young woman) and Jef-
frey Epstein. She claims that Virginia's story about her experience 
as a "sex slave" has changed, significantly, over time— that with 
each telling, Virginia adds salacious details and names new public 
figures. Nevertheless, legal troubles for Maxwell recently began. 
In 2015, Virginia Roberts filed a defamation suit against the 
woman she says recruited her to work at Epstein's house on El Brillo 
Way. In January of 2016, Roberts filed additional papers, claiming 
that a defamation. suit filed against Bill Cosby, another alleged sexual 
predator, was directly relevant to her case against Maxwell. In March, 
Maxwell filed an answer in court denying all of Roberts's allegations 
and accusing Roberts of fabricating them for financial gain. 
As of this writing, the suit is ongoing. 
Prince Andrew 
In January of 2016, Sunninghill Park—the twelve-bedroom estate 
that Sarah Ferguson and Prince Andrew once shared in the 
English county of Berkshire—was bulldozed. 
275 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Prince Andrew had long since sold the home, which he and 
Sarah had received as a gift after their 1986 wedding. He got into 
hot water when it was revealed that the buyer, a Kazakh billion-
aire named Timur Kulibayev, had paid three million pounds 
more than the home's asking price. 
For her part, Sarah Ferguson announced that she was mov-
ing into a thirteen-million-pound ski chalet in Switzerland. 
It was a fitting end to the long, sometimes sordid story of the 
prince's marriage. But it was not the end of the scandals that 
seemed always to be swirling around the prince. 
On January 2, 2015, Virginia Roberts's allegations about her 
relationship with the prince—and the photo of him with his 
arm around Roberts's waist—appeared in the press. Prince 
Andrew was forced to cut short a skiing holiday to confer with 
his mother, the queen, and to issue a statement denying Rob-
erts's allegations—a step that was widely seen as being without 
precedent for a member of the royal family. 
That same month, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, 
Switzerland, the prince was again forced to "reiterate and to reaf-
firm" the repeated denials made by Buckingham Palace that he 
had any sort of sexual relationship with Roberts, who had 
announced in papers filed at the start of the year that Prince 
Andrew has a "sexual interest in feet." 
"My focus is on my work," Prince Andrew said at the time. 
Asked by a reporter, "Will you be making a statement?" the 
prince refused to answer. 
A few days later, Virginia Roberts signed a sworn statement in 
which she said, "I did have sexual contact with him as I have 
described here—under oath. Given what he knows and has seen, 
I was hoping that he would simply voluntarily tell the truth about 
276 
everything. I hope my ati 
under oath about the corm 
According to several r 
to .the prince, asking him 
Reportedly, Buckingham F 
"I knew he was a men 
just called him 'Andy," Ro 
news from Maxwell that I 
day, Epstein told me I was 
me 'to exceed' everything I 
whatever Prince Andrew w 
Signing her name to th( 
under penalty of perjury th 
That spring, Prince An( 
in South Florida ordered tl 
stricken from civil-court n 
ceedings, these lurid detai 
cluded. Once again, Buckin 
prince's involvement in any 
taming to Roberts. But tha. 
BBC program Panorama wa: 
tion into the prince's dealinf 
As of this writing, the in 
Barry Krischer 
"I have no intention of beir 
Barry Krischer said in 2016 
asked about Jeffrey Epstein. 
TTERSON 
c'x sold the home, which he and 
their 1986 wedding. He got into 
.hat the buyer, a Kazakh billion-
had paid three million pounds 
.ce. 
n announced that she was mov-
Ld ski chalet in Switzerland. 
sometimes sordid story of the 
Lot the end of the scandals that 
ound the prince. 
[a Roberts's allegations about her 
-and the photo of him with his 
- appeared in the press. Prince 
a skiing holiday to confer with 
issue a statement denying Rob-
vas widely seen as being without 
royal family. 
Vorld Economic Forum in Davos, 
lin forced to "reiterate and to reaf-
le by Buckingham Palace that he 
ionship with Roberts, who had 
the start of the year that Prince 
in feet." 
Prince Andrew said at the time. 
• you be making a statement?" the 
.oberts signed a sworn statement in 
.exual contact with him as I hay 
Given what he knows and has seen; 
aply voluntarily tell the truth abou 
276 
FILTHY RICH 
everything. I hope my attorneys can interview Prince Andrew 
under oath about the contacts and that he will tell the truth." 
According to several reports, Roberts's lawyers had written 
to .the prince, asking him to respond to her allegations in court. 
Reportedly, Buckingham Palace refused delivery of the letter. 
"I knew he was a member of the British royal family, but I 
just called him 'Andy," Roberts had said in her statement. "I got 
news from Maxwell that I would be meeting a prince. Later that 
day, Epstein told me I was meeting a 'major prince.' Epstein told 
me 'to exceed' everything I had been taught. He emphasized that 
whatever Prince Andrew wanted, I was to make sure he got." 
Signing her name to the document, Roberts wrote, "I declare 
under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct." 
That spring, Prince Andrew got a rare break: a federal judge 
in South Florida ordered that the allegations Roberts made be 
stricken from civil-court records. "At this juncture in the pro-
ceedings, these lurid details are unnecessary," the judge con-
cluded. Once again, Buckingham Palace vehemently denied the 
prince's involvement in any activities, sexual or otherwise, per-
taining to Roberts. But that same year, reports leaked that the 
BBC program Panorama was working on an in-depth investiga-
tion into the prince's dealings with Epstein and Roberts. 
As of this writing, the investigation has yet to air. 
Barry Krischer 
"I have no intention of being dragged into that conversation," 
Barry Krischer said in 2016 when contacted via telephone and 
asked about Jeffrey Epstein. 
277 
JAMES PATTERSON 
More than a decade had passed since Epstein's case first 
landed on the state attorney's desk. 
"The New York Times has called me," said Krischer. "The 
British papers. I'm not interested in being pulled into that con-
versation. I know that the police chief didn't think the case was 
handled right, but that's why he's a cop and I'm a prosecutor." 
Krischer, who left the state attorney's office in 2009, is still a 
member of the Criminal Justice Commission in Palm Beach 
County. Since his retirement, he's volunteered one morning a 
week at the office of the state attorney and two mornings a week 
at the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office. 
He still remains active in child welfare issues, working with 
the Florida Department of Children and Families. 
Despite his continued involvement with local law enforce-
ment, he hasn't spoken to Michael Reiter in years. 
Bradley Edwards 
In December of 2009, Jeffrey Epstein filed suit, under Florida's 
RICO act, against Scott Rothstein, the jailed Ponzi king; Bradley 
Edwards, the lawyer who'd worked, briefly, in Rothstein's law 
firm, RRA, and represented several of Epstein's victims; and one 
of those victims, an individual referred to in the lawsuit as 
"Upon information and belief," the suit stated, "EDWARDS 
knew or should have known that ROTHSTEIN was utilizing 
RRA as a front for the massive Ponzi scheme and/or were selling 
an alleged interest or investment in the Civil Actions (and other 
claims) involving Epstein." The suit also claimed that, "By using 
278 
Civil Actions against EP! 
ments regarding same, RC 
investors into ROTHSTEI1 
dollars which, in turn, w 
EPSTEIN for the sole pur 
scheme." 
Moreover, the suit claii 
sex with Epstein; worked a 
prostitute and call girl; h; 
painkillers, Xanax, Ecsta5 
Amendment during her de 
relevant but problem ques. 
claims about two other vic. 
said only good things abo 
FBI in 2007, while being 
story "changed dramaticall 
the hands of EDWARDS an 
In a motion for summar 
Edwards denied all of thesi 
frivolous for two separate• 
claimed, Epstein was seel 
asserting his own Fifth An 
covery of relevant facts. (An 
dozens of times, when dep 
On the other hand, Epstein 
by all of the record evidence 
"The truth in the record 
support Epstein's claims an 
roborative of Edwards's swor 
stated. 
PERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
;sed since Epstein's case first 
lied me," said Krischer. "The 
in being pulled into that con-
chief didn't think the case was 
a cop and I'm a prosecutor." 
torney's office in 2009, is still a 
Commission in Palm Beach 
es volunteered one morning a 
)rney and two mornings a week 
F's Office. 
Id welfare issues, working with 
ren and Families. 
vement with local law enforce-
el Reiter in years. 
.pstein filed suit, under Florida's 
in, the jailed Ponzi king; Bradley 
)rked, briefly, in Rothstein's law 
'eral of Epstein's victims; and one 
al referred to in the lawsuit as 
lief," the suit stated, "EDWARDS 
that ROTHSTEIN was utilizing 
Ponzi scheme and/or were selling 
;nt in the Civil Actions (and other 
e suit also claimed that, "By using 
278 
Civil Actions against EPSTEIN as 'bait' and fabricating settle-
ments regarding same, ROTHSTEIN and others were able to lure 
investors into ROTHSTEIN'S lair and bilked them of millions of 
dollars which, in turn, was used to fund the litigation against 
EPSTEIN for the sole purpose of continuing the massive Ponzi 
scheme." 
Moreover, the suit claimed, L.M. had "testified she never had 
sex with Epstein; worked at numerous strip clubs; is an admitted 
prostitute and call girl; has a history of illegal drug use (pot, 
painkillers, Xanax, Ecstasy); and continually asserted the 5th 
Amendment during her depositions in order to avoid answering 
relevant but problem questions for her." (The suit made similar 
claims about two other victims.) According to the suit, L.M. had 
said only good things about Epstein when interviewed by the 
FBI in 2007, while being represented by another lawyer. Her 
story "changed dramatically," the suit claimed, once she was "in 
the hands of EDWARDS and RRA." 
In a motion for summary judgment filed by Bradley Edwards, 
Edwards denied all of these allegations, calling Epstein's claims 
frivolous for two separate reasons: On the one hand, Edwards 
claimed, Epstein was seeking damages from Edwards while 
asserting his own Fifth Amendment privilege to block the dis-
covery of relevant facts. (And, in fact, Epstein did plead the Fifth, 
dozens of times, when deposed by the lawyers of his victims.) 
On the other hand, Epstein's claims were "directly contradicted 
by all of the record evidence. 
"The truth in the record is entirely devoid of any evidence to 
support Epstein's claims and is completely and consistently cor-
roborative of Edwards's sworn assertion of innocence," the motion 
stated. 
279 
i 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Put simply, Epstein has made allegations that have no basis 
in fact. To the contrary, his lawsuit was merely a desperate 
measure by a serial pedophile to prevent being held account-
able for repeatedly sexually abusing minor females. Epstein's 
ulterior motives in filing, and prosecuting this lawsuit are 
blatantly obvious. Epstein's behavior is another clear demon-
stration that he feels he lives above the law and that because 
of his wealth he can manipulate the system and pay for law-
yers to do his dirty work—even to the extent of having them 
assert baseless claims against other members of the Florida 
Bar. Epstein's Complaint against Edwards and LM is nothing 
short of a far-fetched fictional fairy-tale with absolutely no 
evidence whatsoever to support his preposterous claims. It 
was his last ditch effort to escape the public disclosure 
by Edwards and his clients of the nature, extent, and sordid 
details of his life as a serial child molester. Edwards's 
Motion for Summary judgment should be granted without 
equivocation. 
Edwards filed a counterclaim for malicious prosecution. "He 
sued me with knowingly made up, falsified facts,' Edwards says. 
And his sole motivation was to extort me into abandoning 
the legitimate cases I was pursuing against him on behalf of 
the victims, including the CVRA suit. He ultimately had to 
dismiss that case, literally on the morning our Summary 
Judgment was to be heard. I then sued him. We were set for 
trial. The judge granted me punitive damages in my claim. 
And then, in a separate case in Florida, one of the appellate 
280 
courts basically abolisl 
in Florida. My case wa! 
our district ruled that 
stand and the tort is ni 
back to the trial court 
the State Supreme Cour 
Sarah Kellen 
"She said her name was C 
tion," says a real estate a, 
much later that I realized s 
In April of 2009, that al 
Beach. For Clara, that 111th 
Epstein's big house on El Br: 
as Sarah Kellen. But not suc 
pay four thousand dollars a 
2009," says a Palm Beach re 
market. "But she stayed a lot 
round-the-world trip for at h 
Kellen had been a prime 
Prosecutors had considered c 
Marcinkova as potential ci 
charges as part of the plea (I( 
the course of which it was 5 
pleaded to something, he cout 
slapping her, once, on his jet. 
ETERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
111egations that have no basis 
Nsuit was merely a desperate 
o prevent being held account-
using minor females. Epstein's 
prosecuting this lawsuit are 
tavior is another clear demon-
'90ve the law and that because 
e the system and pay for law-
n to the extent of having them 
other members of the Florida 
st Edwards and LM is nothing 
fairy-tale with absolutely no 
irt his preposterous claims. It 
escape the public disclosure 
the nature, extent, and sordid 
al child molester. Edwards's 
nt should be granted without 
a for malicious prosecution. "He 
ip, falsified facts,' Edwards says. 
to extort me into abandoning 
•suing against him on behalf of 
RA suit. He ultimately had to 
n the morning our Summary 
hen sued him. We were set for 
'unitive damages in my claim. 
n Florida, one of the appellate 
80 
courts basically abolished the tort of malicious prosecution 
in Florida. My case was dismissed. I then appealed that. And 
our district ruled that my malicious prosecution claim can 
stand and the tort is not abolished in Florida. They sent it 
back to the trial court and Jeffrey Epstein appealed that to 
the State Supreme Court, and that's where that stands. 
Sarah Kellen 
"She said her name was Clara something on the rental applica-
tion," says a real estate agent in Palm Beach. "It wasn't until 
much later that I realized she was associated with Epstein." 
In April of 2009, that agent rented Clara a bungalow in Palm 
Beach. For Clara, that little home was a step down from Jeffrey 
Epstein's big house on El Brillo Way and from the life she'd known 
as Sarah Kellen. But not such a step down. "She signed a lease to 
pay four thousand dollars a month from April 18 through July 18, 
2009," says a Palm Beach resident familiar with the local housing 
market. "But she stayed a lot longer. And by the way, she went on a 
round-the-world trip for at least a month while she had the lease." 
Kellen had been a prime suspect in Chief Reiter's investigation. 
Prosecutors had considered charging her, Wendy Dobbs, and Nadia 
Marcinkova as potential coconspirators. They'd avoided those 
charges as part of the plea deal that Epstein had struck—a deal in 
the course of which it was suggested that if Epstein had to have 
pleaded to something, he could have pleaded to striking Kellen—or 
slapping her, once, on his jet. Assault, they'd have called it. 
281 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Kellen might have gone along with that. But in the end she 
didn't need to. Sources say she found another rich man as Epstein 
whiled away his hours in and out of the Palm Beach Stockade. 
She reinvented herself, and when her relationship with the 
wealthy man fell apart, she played the field until she met and 
married a race-car driver named Brian Vickers. Along the way 
she reinvented herself yet again, changing her name to Sarah 
Kensington. 
Nadia Marcinkova 
Nadia Marcinkova changed her surname to Marcinko and, after 
training at a Palm Beach flight school, became a commercial 
pilot and certified flight instructor. Calling herself Gulfstream 
Girl on Facebook, she cultivated her social media presence until 
2013, when the Gulfstream company filed a trademark infringe-
ment lawsuit against her. When the suit was settled out of court, 
in 2014, Marcinko changed "Gulfstream" to "Global." 
"As a child," she wrote for the "About Me" page on her web-
site, "Nadia channeled her entrepreneurial spirit by selling invi-
sible pets to neighboring kids. She continued on to manage a 
successful family marketing business and soon she was disco-
vered by a modeling agency and immersed into the marketing 
and advertising world as a spokesperson and international fash-
ion model." 
There is no mention of Jeffrey Epstein. But on her YouTube 
channel, Marcinko appears in the cockpit of a Gulfstream II that 
looks very much like Epstein's Gulfstream, sitting beside a man 
who looks much like Larry Visoski, a pilot for Epstein. 
282 
Marcinko's Manhatte 
Jeffrey Epstein's brother, 
Sarah Kensington us( 
The Girls 
One of the girls who gave 
Angeles and became an 
opera and appearing in 
career in country music. 
Several girls have bee 
other nonviolent crimes. 
One girl is dead— m 
that had nothing to do wi 
One of the girls who ( 
is now a successful real e5 
Mary moved back in 
and attended college for 
along the way. In 2010, 
Mary, who was born in 1 
young for a man of Jeffrey 
ahead of her. 
Wendy Dobbs studied 
tender and waitress. "I m 
[utilize] my communicatil 
others," she wrote on Lin 
can make a difference in s( 
encourage others to make 
reaching for the stars then 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
with that. But in the end she 
.d another rich man as Epstein 
of the Palm Beach Stockade. 
n her relationship with the 
d the field until she met and 
Brian Vickers. Along the way 
changing her name to Sarah 
trname to Marcinko and, after 
>chool, became a commercial 
)r. Calling herself Gulfstream 
Ler social media presence until 
my filed a trademark infringe-
le suit was settled out of court, 
>tream" to "Global." 
• "About Me" page on her web-
reneurial spirit by selling invi-
he continued on to manage a 
.ness and soon she was disco-
immersed into the marketing 
;person and international [ash-
y Epstein. But on her YouTube 
cockpit of a Gulfstream II that 
ulfstream, sitting beside a man 
ki, a pilot for Epstein. 
Marcinko's Manhattan address belongs to a building where 
Jeffrey Epstein's brother, Mark, owns the majority of apartments. 
Sarah Kensington uses the same address in New York. 
The Girls 
One of the girls who gave Jeffrey Epstein massages moved to Los 
Angeles and became an actress, starring for a time in a soap 
opera and appearing in several films. She is now pursuing a 
career in country music. 
Several girls have been arrested for drugs, prostitution, and 
other nonviolent crimes. 
One girl is dead—murdered by her boyfriend for reasons 
that had nothing to do with Epstein. 
One of the girls who claimed to have been raped by Epstein 
is now a successful real estate broker in South Florida. 
Mary moved back in with her parents, finished high school, 
and attended college for a while. She had her ups and downs 
along the way. In 2010, she was arrested for shoplifting. But 
Mary, who was born in 1990, is still in her midtwenties —still 
young for a man of Jeffrey Epstein's age—with many good years 
ahead of her. 
Wendy Dobbs studied nursing in college and became a bar-
tender and waitress. "I want to fill a position in which I can 
[utilize] my communication and customer service skills to help 
others," she wrote on LinkedIn. "I feel I am at my best when I 
can make a difference in someone's life. My goal is to inspire and 
encourage others to make positive changes daily. If you are not 
reaching for the stars then your dreams are not big enough." 
283 
JAMES PATTERSON 
The Cops 
Michele Pagan is now a sergeant for the Palm Beach Police 
Department. 
In early 2012, at a reception at Mar-a-Lago, Detective Joe 
Recarey received the first Palm Beach Police Foundation Police 
Officer of the Year award—one of several honors he received in 
the course of his twenty-three-year career in Palm Beach. Two 
years later, he left the department and took a job as director of 
loss prevention for the Gold Coast Beverage company. 
"I've been [at the Palm Beach Police Department] longer than 
my children have been alive," he told a reporter for the Palm 
Beach Daily News when he left. "I'm going to miss a majority of 
the people I've worked with, and, obviously, I'm going to miss 
the work. This is my extended family. Like many families, you 
have disagreements with some family members. But you over-
look that, and you work together and you're a team. I'm going to 
look back and miss a lot of the people I've worked with." 
Palm Beach police chief Michael Reiter left the department in 
2008 after twenty-eight years on the job. He now runs his own 
security company in Palm Beach. 
Jean-Luc Brunel 
In January of 2015, Jean-Luc Brunel sued his old friend Jeffrey 
Epstein, claiming that Epstein's fall from grace had cost him mil-
lions of dollars in business and caused him "severe emotional stress." 
The lawsuit claimed, "Plaintiff Brunel is emotionally destroyed 
284 
as a result of Epstein's actic 
ness. He has been on medic 
It continues: "Defendar 
distress on Plaintiff Brun( 
under-aged girls, which wa 
gal conduct was extreme ar 
The suit went on to qu 
modeling scout had gone ii 
sense of depression related 
in his modeling agency as a 
business." Brunel had go 
Rivotril— as a result. 
The fashion world had fr. 
ship with Jeffrey Epstein had 
ble for him to find the "fresh 
Brunel acknowledged E 
own involvement. "Epsteir 
and extreme; they involved 
aged girls while the girls w 
of the girls with a finger or ( 
When the Daily Beast r( 
Brunel for a comment, the v 
is not in town; he's in South 
Brunel's agency, MC2, is 
Jeffrey Epstein 
As of this writing, Jeffrey El 
women at his Manhattan tov 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
t for the Palm Beach Police 
at Mar-a-Lago, Detective Joe 
:ach Police Foundation Police 
several honors he received in 
ir career in Palm Beach. Two 
• and took a job as director of 
Beverage company. 
olice Department] longer than 
: told a reporter for the Palm 
m going to miss a majority of 
, obviously, I'm going to miss 
mily. Like many families, you 
•mily members. But you over-
Ind you're a team. I'm going to 
pie I've worked with." 
el Reiter left the department in 
the job. He now runs his own 
nel sued his old friend Jeffrey 
1 from grace had cost him mil-
ml him "severe emotional stress." 
Brunel is emotionally destroyed 
as a result of Epstein's actions and the resulting effects on his busi-
ness. He has been on medications to deal with the effects of this." 
It continues: "Defendant Epstein recklessly inflicted emotional 
distress on Plaintiff Brunel by engaging in illegal conduct with 
under-aged girls, which was falsely linked to Plaintiff.... This ille-
gal conduct was extreme and outrageous by any standard." 
The suit went on to quote Bruners doctor, who said that the 
modeling scout had gone into psychotherapy "due to a subjective 
sense of depression related to what he believes is a loss of business 
in his modeling agency as a result of slander published against his 
business." Brunel had gone on prescription drugs— Prozac, 
Rivotril— as a result. 
The fashion world had frozen him out, he said, after his relation-
ship with Jeffrey Epstein had become public. It had become impossi-
ble for him to find the "fresh faces" he needed for his agency, MC2. 
Brunel acknowledged Epstein's alleged crimes but denied his 
own involvement. "Epstein's illegal activities were outrageous 
and extreme; they involved receiving massages from the under-
aged girls while the girls were nude or nearly nude; penetration 
of the girls with a finger or object; or full intercourse." 
When the Daily Beast reported the story and reached out to 
Brunel for a comment, the website's reporter was told, "Jean-Luc 
is not in town; he's in South America." 
Bruners agency, MC2, is still in business. 
Jeffrey Epstein 
As of this writing, Jeffrey Epstein continues to entertain young 
women at his Manhattan town house. 
285 
EPILOGUE . 
When John Connolly, Tim Malloy, and I began work on 
this book, I had hoped to interview Jeffrey Epstein 
myself: to look directly into the eyes of the man we'd 
be writing about. Epstein declined to sit for an interview. Many 
of his friends and associates did speak with us on the condition 
that they not be quoted. Several of them still liked Epstein and 
made a point of telling us what a loyal friend he was—although, 
like Icarus, he seemed to have a fatal flaw. 
If Epstein had agreed to an interview, these are the questions 
I would have asked him: 
• You pleaded guilty to a single felony count of soliciting 
prostitution from a minor. Do you believe in your heart 
that you were guilty? 
• In 2011 you told the New York Post, "I'm not a sexual 
predator, I'm an 'offender.' It's the difference between a 
murderer and a person who steals a bagel." Do you 
stand by that statement today? 
286 
• Do you feel you w 
tice system? 
• What effect did yo 
• Do you believe th; 
the women— esp 
been involved wit] 
• Are you still in tot 
• Are you in touch v 
• You've spent time 
Trump. How woul 
• Several people havi 
Is that a fair charac 
• I've heard that Les 
of you from his ho. 
have you reconcile, 
• Did the thirteen mi 
any way? 
• After your stay in 
the company of ver 
• You were ordered 1 
as part of your s( 
today? 
• Do you regard you' 
if so, have you been 
• What is your greate 
• What do you look f( 
• Last question. How 
FILTHY RICH 
EPILOGUE 
n Malloy, and I began work on 
d to interview Jeffrey Epstein 
/ into the eyes of the man we'd 
:d to sit for an interview. Many 
speak with us on the condition 
of them still liked Epstein and 
Loyal friend he was—although, 
atal flaw. 
terview, these are the questions 
;le felony count of soliciting 
Do you believe in your heart 
York Post, "I'm not a sexual 
ft's the difference between a 
ho steals a bagel." Do you 
.ay? 
6 
• Do you feel you were treated fairly by the criminal jus-
tice system? 
• What effect did your conviction have on your business? 
• Do you believe that you've done psychological harm to 
the women—especially the underage girls—you've 
been involved with? 
• Are you still in touch with Ghislaine Maxwell? 
• Are you in touch with Prince Andrew? 
• You've spent time with Bill Clinton as well as Donald 
Trump. How would you characterize the two men? 
• Several people have described you as a very loyal friend. 
Is that a fair characterization? 
• I've heard that Leslie Wexner removed all photographs 
• of you from his home. Given how close you once were, 
have you reconciled or tried to repair the relationship? 
• Did the thirteen months you spent in jail change you in 
any way? 
• After your stay in prison, have you continued to seek 
pany of very underage women 
• You were ordered to undergo psychological treatment 
as part of your sentence. Are you under treatment 
today? 
• Do you regard yourself as having a sex addiction, and, 
if so, have you been treated for it? 
• What is your greatest regret? 
• What do you look for in a woman? 
• Last question. How well do you sleep at night? 
ABOUT THE AUTHORS 
James Patterson received the Literarian Award for Outstand-
ing Service to the American Literary Community at the 2015 
National Book Awards ceremony. He holds the Guinness World 
Record for the most number one New York Times bestsellers, and 
his books have sold more than 325 million copies worldwide. 
John Connolly has been an investigative reporter for twenty-five 
years, the last twelve of them with Vanity Fair. He has written 
scores of nonfiction pieces for numerous national magazines. ' 
Tim Malloy is a thirty-year veteran of print and television jour-
nalism. He has won eight Emmys as an investigative reporter, 
documentary maker, and war correspondent. He appears in 
print, on the Web, and on TV as a political analyst. 
4,74, 
9.41.6" 
"I HAD BEEN HEARING HAIR-RAISING STORIES 
aboutJefftey Epstein for a couple qfyears. Our interests 
could not have been more different, but Palm Beach, 
where we both live, is small and tightly knit, and we 
knew some of the same people. So I had followed 
Epstein's case in the media and talked about it over 
dinners with friends. I wondered why it had taken 
so long for the Palm Beach police to catch up with 
Epstein. And, once they did, why he had served so 
little jail time. Those were the obvious questions, but 
there were others: How had Epstein made his money, 
possibly billions? No one seemed to know. 
Epstein had poweifitl friends. Were  his connec-
tions the reason that Epstein was now a free man? 
I wanted to know." 
egavaa,-twaxearAtztr,waxatatats-.%.wexiaektlx,.z.va 
.1.10'sdtSR1 
• .1 *Tr C. • 
aelthri 
r.? 
— 
•Cktsi. 
1,0 
ISBN 978-0-316-27405-0 
9 780316 274050 
..et.A3V1%.1-7 
tA,Lt.tp-
5 2 800 > 
*t" 
r 
AP! ( 
4-4 
otw<' 9R:1m 
ta*, 
.r 
-VA IA. • Sive. 
10% rstiVir*0 
.413,706%94facr 
WW*CtA\ 
• •=:=4W09. • 
.4. - d'.41& 
ilt.,..7-• . . 1.;1•0 
.stl. •-6•••.. • 001,....• 0- •,.. 
.• 5,6 Ar .i..t.s.0 
x?.v..c.. 
1•IgtIger 
cliai,tk.-
--. 
••: ,. 
ak 
(c.,...-4-,.1...0,0twtikt, . %.....;:10.4p,.!,-(4, • 
.\--i:ral: .....t...n-A.,66o Triv:A A. 4109aSki 
/=;.: 'It '1'1. tti• Aft- ".-.4'0 
\t0,.. `rittea tliCi 
0 
"....a. 
...i..,,,. . 
f...4o.p.o 
ctiv-e..-q 
....L% .4.41., 
..1., .. 
c; c: ft ••;,;,1 
Rrita;Zt' . 
*ilASIO 
,t49:19. 
g;14. 
0,1 
