From: Thomas Jr., Landon 
Sent: 11/29/2016 6:33:42 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fwd: My Thoughts on Currencies 
Importance: High 
The smartest/most amusing piece of research I have read so far on Trump/global economy. You 
should pass on to DJT brain trust on economy/markets 
----------Forwarded message---------- 
From: Eurizon SLJ Capital Limited <researchgresearch.sljmacro.com> 
Date: Tue, Nov 29, 2016 at 10:51 AM 
Subject: My Thoughts on Currencies 
To: 
This email is intended for the addressee. Please do not forward this note outside your 
institution. Thank you for your cooperation. If you would like to refer our research to a friend, please 
contact us at Research@eurizonsljcapital.com. 
Click here to view online 
www.eurizonslicapital.corn 
My Thoughts on Currencies 
Stephen L Jen (London) 
November 29, 2016 
Bottom line. Some retracement in the market trends we've seen since 
November 8 makes sense, in light of the magnitudes of the moves as well as 
the upcoming event risks (Italian referendum, OPEC meeting, and the 
FOMC meeting). But I think none of these events will likely surprise the 
markets, and President-Elect Trump will likely continue to drive the 
markets, extending the recent trends. By the way, he has left the US 
Treasury Secretary post last to be filled, and it is the most important 
appointment for the markets as it will both reflect and influence key policies 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026637 
on trade, tax cuts, and infrastructure spending. (1) The doves at the Fed 
have been silenced as, under President Trump, the US policy mix will likely 
be less lop-sided and the emphasis will be on Arrow 3, with Arrow 1 being 
downgraded. I think the effective demotion of the Fed has just begun. Its 
independence will likely be challenged, as it should be, in my personal 
view. November 8 marked the beginning of the end of the financial 
repression in the US. (2) Generating outsized economic growth will be key 
to settling several important inconsistencies in macro. I will elaborate on 
this point below. But the market trends witnessed since November 8 will 
not be sustained unless Mr Trump's policies indeed lead to significantly 
higher nominal GDP growth. (3) The mainstream media remain negative on 
Mr Trump, but this will keep the hurdle low, and in turn pressure President 
Trump to deliver early in 2017 and thus for him to impress favourably. A 
shift away from identity politics, in my view, based on my personal 
experience from Taiwan, should lead to positive economic 
progress. Investors won't need to wait long for there to be more concrete 
announcements on the various parts of Arrow 3, including both the content 
of the policies as well as their sequencing. (4) FWIW, my two policy 
recommendations to the reformers are (i) design an effective global taxation 
scheme to properly tax multi-national corporations and (ii) adopt industrial 
policies to help countries focus on their comparative advantages. The US, 
UK, Japan, and Italy are all prime candidates to do (ii). (5) The dollar is 
already moderately over-valued, but this will not prevent it from 
strengthening further, especially against the EM currencies. Think in terms 
of 'growth alpha' and 'growth beta.' Much of EM, including China since 
February of this year, have not possessed 'growth alpha' and have continued 
to rely on 'growth beta' vis-à-vis the rest of the world. I struggle to think of 
key reforms that EM countries have embarked on in recent years: even 
countries like France and Italy have undertaken more reforms than most EM 
countries. Squeezed by (i) a more hawkish Fed, (ii) a China that will 
continue to soft land, and (iii) a potentially more inward-looking US, EM 
will struggle without 'growth alpha.' I think we may be entering into a 
period of differentiation among the EM markets: those that have 'growth 
alpha' will be rewarded while those that continue to rely on 'growth beta' 
will not. (6) The world according to Trump will be more Darwinian for 
countries and less Darwinian for US citizens.This notion applies to investing 
in EM, to countries' growth prospects, and to international competition — 
(potentially) very different from the last few years, when 'the Fed was the 
only game in town' and everyone and everything floated higher by central 
bank liquidity... In any case, the dollar should be in a good position to 
thrive, I think. 
Economic Olympics. The markets are no longer driven only by the Fed and 
central bank policies, but by forward-looking policy inclinations. The 'false 
economy' that central banks have nurtured will gradually be replaced by real 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026638 
economies. In my view, Mr Trump's victory will have many social, 
geopolitical, and economic consequences, but for investors I think he will 
start a period of 'Economic Olympics', whereby the federal governments 
around the world will take more responsibility and be more proactive to help 
their 'national teams' to become more competitive in this globalised 
world. (1) Free trade is in theory good for economic growth. But there are 
other policies (such as well-directed R&D, efficient investment, an effective 
educational system) that are also extremely important for long-term growth, 
but have been ignored in the past 15 years because of the globalisation 
fad. A slowdown in trade globalisation might not be bad for the global 
economy, if policy makers replace this engine of growth with other 
structural improvements. But while globalisation is more about 'growth 
beta', other types of structural reforms are about 'growth alpha' and 
federal/central governments around the world will need to make a greater 
effort at leading the economies to prevent them from falling behind. This is 
like a government-led program to win Olympic medals, without doping by 
central banks. (2) A client kindly brought to my attention an interesting 
report done by the Harvard Business School that touches on the idea 
mentioned above (Problems Unsolved and a Nation Divided: the State of 
US Competitiveness 2016'). In it, several sensible and consequential points 
were made: 'The pressing need for a national economic strategy... Given 
the significant challenges facing the American economy, the U.S. needs a 
national economic strategy more than at any other time in recent history. A 
strategy is an integrated set of priorities that builds on strengths while 
acknowledging and tackling weaknesses... The U.S. lacks an economic 
strategy, especially at the federal level. The implicit strategy has been to 
trust the Federal Reserve to solve our problems through monetary 
policy... A national economic strategy for the U.S. will require action by 
business, state and local governments, and the federal government. All 
three levels have a crucial role to play in restoring competitiveness... Taking 
leadership in improving U.S. competitiveness is a pressing imperative for 
business leaders. _Many companies have failed to invest enough in 
improving the business environments in the regions in which they 
operate...' This report from the HBS also reiterates some recommendations 
they made in 2012: `[Our] Eight-Point Plan consists of the following policy 
recommendations: simplift the corporate tax code with lower statutory rates 
and no loopholes; move to a territorial tax system like all other leading 
nations '; ease the immigration of highly-skilled individuals; aggressively 
address distortions and abuses in the international trading system; improve 
logistics, communications, and energy infrastructure; simplift and 
streamline regulation; create a sustainable federal budget, including reform 
of entitlements; and responsibly develop America's unconventional energy 
advantage.' Interestingly, Mr Trump has discussed many of the same 
points. I personally think that, so far, identity politics has distracted from his 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026639 
message on economic reform. It is likely, I believe, that the focus of the 
general public will be moved to these critical economic reforms. (3) I repeat 
a point I've made in the past, that because the mainstream media and most 
scholars are still so skeptical of Mr Trump's policies, the hurdle for him to 
clear and impress positively is very low. Ironically, such general hostility 
will probably work in favour of the Trump Administration. 5 days after the 
surprise election victory, the press declared that Mr Trump's transition plan 
was in hopeless disarray, only for Mr Trump to announce one cabinet 
appointment every day — ahead of the schedule of Presidents Obama and Bill 
Clinton when they got elected. (4) We will likely see a less radical President 
Trump. We have already seen this on various issues (the Wall, prosecuting 
Ms Clinton), and my guess is that the trade policy will be more restrictive, 
but the changes will be nuanced at the same time. The appointment of the 
next Treasury Secretary will convey an important message. (5) I personally 
think that various countries will likely adopt industrial policies, as a 
substitute for slower trade globalization. Already, the UK's PM May 
announced an ambitious industrial strategy, with a focus on technology. The 
government is committed to investing in R&D through the Industrial 
Strategy Challenge Fund. Regular readers of our work should also know 
that that is what I would recommend for Japan to consider. I just came back 
from a trip to Singapore, and understand that the government there is also 
struggling to find the best strategy to deal with the next phase of economic 
development, now that the growth model based on trade and finance may be 
coming to an end. I think the US should also contemplate its own industrial 
policy. The title of this section is 'economic Olympics' to convey the notion 
that the world is in competition, not just along the axes of cheapness of 
labour and technology. There are different disciplines (analogous to the 
various sports in Olympics) in which any country can excel, if the efforts are 
appropriately focused. Instead of being mediocre in many events, countries 
should seek to win the gold medal in their best events... 
5%-plus nominal GDP growth in the US in 2017? There are several 
inconsistencies in the market trends: (1) a strong dollar and strong US 
equities; (2) protectionism and a strong dollar (Mexico, for example, has 
gotten 10% cheaper so far this month, and China is also cheaper. The 
greater the threats of protectionism against these countries, the cheaper are 
their costs of production...); (3) higher yields and strong equities; (4) Mr 
Trump does not like Chair Yellen or the Fed but he still needs and prefers 
low interest rates. The only variable that can address these inconsistencies is 
3-4% real economic growth and 5%-plus nominal GDP growth in the 
US. While it is unlikely that 5% nominal GDP growth is sustained over 
time, the atmospherics will stop the talk about `r-star' and help support 
interest rates in the US. 2017 may very well see 5%-plus nominal GDP 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026640 
growth, and, in the event, the 10Y UST yield at 2.34% would not seem too 
high. 
The dollar will continue to smile. Previously, we made the suggestion that 
the US dollar is on the right side of the Dollar Smile against the majors, but 
it is on the left side of the Dollar Smile against the EM 
currencies. Reaganomics-Lite should be positive for the dollar, even if the 
US' twin deficits could widen. 'America First' means that there will be a 
bifurcation in economic prosperity, that economic strength in the US will no 
longer translate, with the same elasticities as before, into prosperity in many 
parts of EM. (1) The dollar has begun a consolidation phase this week. But 
my guess is that it will be temporary and shallow, partly because the data 
(ISM and NFPRs) will be sufficiently strong to justify another Fed rate hike 
on December 14. The weekly claims data remain extraordinarily strong, 
while the second derivatives in the data in much of EM have ceased to be 
positive. (2) Further advances in the dollar, however, will of course depend 
on the policy announcements and delivery by the Trump Administration, as 
well as an apparent lack of an economic strategy in other countries. (3) 
Yield differentials have helped the dollar advance vis-à-vis the JPY and the 
EUR. However, I should note that the EMU economies are not doing that 
badly, though credit demand remains weak. PMI remains well above 50 and 
inflation has bounced away from zero. The main factor — other than yield 
differentials - weighing on the EUR is the risk that we will see more political 
uncertainty in Europe. (4) I came across an editorial arguing that Mr 
Trump's protectionist policies would hurt the dollar's international 
standing. While this may be a popular view — that the US, as a savings 
deficit nation, needs a globalised world to finance its external balance —I 
contest this conclusion. I think it will be extremely difficult for the 
international status of the dollar to be supplanted, even with Mr Trump as 
the President. The dollar losing its hegemonic status has been a popular 
thesis by many academics over the last twenty years — precisely the period 
when the dollar's international and reserve currency status has risen. In 
many ways, the sturdiness of the dollar's global status has surprised some 
people, because globalisation is supposed to lead to a multi-polar world 
where the US loses its dominance. That is certainly true for the real 
economy, but exactly the opposite has happened for the dollar. This is a 
point I've tried hard to make over the years, that financial globalisation is 
uni-polar, even though trade globalisation is multi-polar. Look at how the 
rise in the dollar is hurting, disproportionately, the high-yield and EM 
currencies. Further, which currencies might replace the dollar? The EUR 
itself is still in an existential crisis; nothing needs to be said about the JPY; 
China could not even dare opening up its capital account. In fact, Beijing 
has just issued even more 'strict controls' on overseas investment, after 
experiencing some USD207 billion in outflows in Q3 2016. Just because 
President Trump's prospective trade policy may not be politically correct 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026641 
does not imply that there will be a demise of the dollar, or that fewer people 
in the world would speak English in protest. If anything, I'm worried that a 
sharp rally in the dollar could trigger another financial crisis in EM... Don't 
get me wrong, I do not believe the dominance of the dollar is good for the 
global financial/monetary system. But it is a trend that is difficult to reverse, 
unless the structural integrity of the EUR is enhanced, and the foundations of 
the RMB market are improved. Increasing returns to scale have made 
English/dollar popular, and it will be increasingly difficult to challenge their 
roles as the world internationalizes. (5) The BIS recently published an 
interesting and important paper (`The Dollar, Bank Leverage and the 
Deviation from Covered Interest Parity,' by H.S. Shin et al., BIS WP 592) 
on how a stronger dollar could lead to a tightening in lending conditions in 
the rest of the world, including EM. ' 111 he value of the dollar plays the role 
of a barometer of risk-taking capacity in capital markets. In particular, it is 
the spot exchange rate of the dollar which plays a crucial role... [7] he 
strength of the dollar is a key determinant of bank leverage... Our results 
point to the financial channel of exchange rates, through which fluctuations 
in the strength of the dollar set in motion changes in capital market 
intermediation spreads that respond at a high frequency._ [Ili is when the 
domestic currency appreciates, financial conditions in that country loosen, 
and CIP deviations narrow... [A] strengthening of US dollar has adverse 
impacts on bank balance sheets, which, in turn, reduces banks ' risk bearing 
capacity.' The findings of this paper are consistent with two of the points 
made above, that we may re-enter a phase that is not that positive for EM 
currencies and that the dominance of the dollar as an international currency 
is having unintended consequences for the rest of the world, out of line with 
the local fundamentals. 
Trump and Europe. Political and social pressures have returned to Europe, 
and could continue to accentuate the centrifugal forces in the region. There 
are many risk events on the horizon, including the Austrian Presidential 
election on December 4 (the worry here is a victory for Mr Norbert Hofer of 
the far right party), the Italian referendum on Constitutional reform on 
December 4 (while a 'no' outcome is largely priced-in, an actual 'no' 
outcome may trigger a series of events in Italy that might pose some 
downside risks to Italian banks and in turn other European banks), the Dutch 
parliamentary election on March 15, 2017 (the worry here is further 
advances by the far right party led by Geert Wilders), the first round of the 
French presidential election on April 23 and the second round on May 7, UK 
local elections on May 4 (this will be the first major electoral test for PM 
May), and finally German regional elections on May 7 and 14 and the 
parliamentary election in September. (1) I don't think the direction of 
causality runs from Trump to Europe, but that the underlying forces 
propelling both Brexit and Trump are the same forces that are pushing the 
political centre of mass to the right in Europe. This direction of causality is 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026642 
i 
important to appreciate, I think, because if one believed that the direction of 
causality is the opposite, that Trump causes other changes that would have 
been avoidable if Ms Clinton had won, one would come up with the wrong 
conclusions on what to do to stop the global shift in sentiment. (2) The 
Economist had a special edition last week on the rising nationalism in the 
developed West, as if it's an unfounded, random and sinister event that 
needs to be suppressed by all means necessary. For various reasons, the 
political left is in decline in the developed West. Look at the UK's Labour 
Party and the US' Democratic Party. In France, only 1 out of 20 people 
approves of Hollande's performance. (3) The Presidential race in France is 
now between the Centre Right (Mr Fillon from the Republican Party) and 
the Far Right (Ms Le Pen from National Front). The pendulum in Europe, in 
my view, will swing to the right, and possibly overshoot, as pendulums tend 
to do... which is not good, but an unavoidable consequence of the pendulum 
having overshot to the left in the past... In any case, with the Republican 
primary being out of the way, the campaign will start in earnest, with the 
first round of the Presidential elections to take place in April and the second 
round in May. FWIW, Mr Fillon looks like a stronger candidate than Mr 
Sarkozy to challenge Ms Le Pen. France, under Mr Fillon, could very well 
enter a period of economic reform and rejuvenation, I am guessing. In short, 
Mr Fillon's victory last weekend could be a major positive for France, I 
think. 
The trouble with macroeconomics. The rebellion against the establishment 
has also begun in the nerdy field of macro economics, led in part by Prof 
Paul Romer of the Stern School of Business. He, of course, has made 
enemies in the field with his view — a view I share: 'For more than three 
decades, macroeconomics has gone backwards. The treatment of 
identification now is no more credible than in the early 1970s but escapes 
challenge because it is so much more opaque. Macroeconomic theorists 
dismiss mere facts by feigning an obtuse ignorance about such simple 
assertions as "tight monetwy policy can cause a recession." Their models 
attribute fluctuations in aggregate variables to imaginary causal forces that 
are not influenced by the action that any person takes. A parallel with string 
theory from physics hints at a general failure mode of science that is 
triggered when respect for highly regarded leaders evolves into a deference 
to authority that displaces objective fact from its position as the ultimate 
determinant of scientific truth.' Group think has become a serious 
impediment to advances and renewals in this important field. Misguided 
policies have also had significant consequences for people's lives around the 
world. 
Trade globalization. There will likely be a shift from unconditional, 
uncontrolled, and unmanaged trade globalisation, i.e. 'free trade', to 'fair 
trade,'. Trade globalisation of the type that we have just experienced 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026643 
exchanged rising economic and political inequality for overall 
prosperity. We have simply reached a point where this rising inequality is 
no longer sustainable in democracies. This is not too different from what 
Beijing has been struggling with — to slow down the headline economic 
growth rate in exchange for more balance in various parts of the economy, in 
order to allow its development to be more sustainable. The parallels in the 
West seem quite clear to me. Fighting against this shift in the West, as most 
mainstream media seem to be doing, is tantamount to those in China who are 
fighting against the economic slowdown. (1) TPP is effectively dead, even 
though there are some who are urging that TPP goes ahead without the 
US. But I think multilateral trade pacts are in jeopardy. The Trump 
Administration still wants to have trade arrangements, but they will be 
bilateral and done with countries deemed friendly to the US. (2) The UK is 
in a great position to deal with the Trump Administration because all the UK 
needs is a bilateral trade arrangement that won't take as long to work out, 
compared to a multilateral trade arrangement. The UK just went from the 
'back of the queue' (which was an insulting declaration by President Obama, 
conspicuously using the word 'queue' to make sure the Brits understood 
him) to the 'front of the line.' (3) China was never a part of the TPP 
discussions. In fact, TPP was designed from day one to marginalise China, 
to replace the current trade arrangement based on WTO rules to something 
that puts China at a disadvantage. This is why Beijing is not unhappy with 
the Trump Administration's desire to terminate the TPP discussions. (4) 
'America First' does not only mean 'world second,' that the US will take 
actions to benefit the US even if these policies come at the expense of the 
rest of the world. It also means that policies will be aimed at addressing the 
inequality and inequity in the US, even if it means that the overall effects on 
the US may be negative. (5) In sum, I don't think trade globalisation will 
reverse. But it will slow down dramatically and be substituted with a 
different web of bilateral arrangements. I think this is a positive 
development, as the previous model of global growth was unsustainable, 
even if it generated the biggest aggregate prosperity for the world. (6) The 
next US Treasury Secretary will likely be instructed by President Trump to 
label China as a currency manipulator. While this would be a verdict 
without basis, in my view, such a finding could be used as an excuse to 
escalate the talks of protectionism. 
Some musings... (1) President Obama just awarded his last round of 
Presidential Medals of Freedom (America's highest civilian honour) to 
Michael Jordan, Ellen DeGeneres, Robert de Niro, and others. Many of 
these award recipients were vocal critics of Mr Trump. My views on 
politics really don't matter... But for what it is worth, the reason why I have 
been more vocal than I should have been about Brexit and the US Elections 
is related to my own personal experience. I have witnessed how a previous 
harmonious society could very quickly degenerate into a permanent state of 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026644 
ethnic hatred, through identity politics. This happened in Taiwan, where I 
grew up. When I was a child, I was fluent in Mandarin and Taiwanese, as 
most of the children I was friends with were not recent immigrants from 
Mainland China like my family was. There were no social conflicts, as far 
as I recall, until the pro-independence movement riled up those who 
considered themselves 'Taiwanese' against the 'Mainlanders' like 
myself Some of my Taiwanese childhood friends are no longer on speaking 
terms with me, simply because I'm a 'Mainlander.' Taiwan's economic 
development came to a sudden halt, as people were in a constant state of 
feeling mistreated by the other group. The pendulum would swing from one 
side (green) to the other (blue), each time a President is found to have 
committed blatant and large-scale corruption. The politicians won, but the 
people lost. This is one reason why I deeply resent identity politics and fear 
that the proponents don't truly understand how dangerous this game really 
can be. In contrast to the prevalent view, I believe indentity politics are 
themselves divisive. Economic cycles and political cycles come and go, but 
people can hate each other for generations. Look around the world; I think 
we can find plenty examples of irrational hatred between ethnic groups, 
ironically because one group felt they were wronged by another and the 
political discussions got hijacked by overly zealous politicians. (2) I love 
Michael Jordan and have nothing against Ellen DeGeneres, but think Robert 
de Niro made a fool of himself in that video. While this may not interest 
President Obama, Mr Joe Sutter just passed away: he was the 'Father of the 
Boeing 747', the lead engineer that designed and built the first B-747 in 
1969. Maybe one day someone will do a movie about him, and the actor 
playing him could win the Presidential Medal of Freedom... (3) An artist in 
China made a sculpture of a black swan (see the photo below), which was 
placed in a shopping mall in Beijing on the other side of the street from the 
headquarters of CSRC (China Securities Regulatory Commission) — the 
government agency in charge of the securities markets and the agency that 
intervened to support the Chinese equity markets. This sculpture was 
quickly removed by government agents, within 3 hours of it being placed 
there. Months earlier, there were two sculptures of bears (mama bear and a 
baby bear) that were placed outside the same mall, and they were also 
removed quickly... Maybe I was wrong for belittling artists and 
entertainers: they may have the power to bring down the USD9 trillion 
equity markets in China with a small sculpture... 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026645 
slj 
This research note is provided by Eurizon SLJ Capital Limited, a Limited Company with Company Number: 
9775525, registered in England with Registered Office Address 100 Brompton Road, SW3 lER. Eurizon SLJ 
Capital Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA"). 
This commentary has been prepared by a member of Eurizon SLJ Capital Limited and may not be reproduced, 
redistributed or copied in whole or in part for any purpose. Neither this document, nor any copy or part thereof, 
may be distributed in any other jurisdictions where its distribution may be restricted by law and persons into whose 
possession the material comes should inform themselves about, and observe, any such restrictions. 
The information and opinions provided in our research take no account of investor's individual circumstances and 
should not be taken as specific advice on the merits of any investment decision. No member of Eurizon SLJ Capital 
Limited accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss howsoever arising, directly or 
indirectly, from any use of our research or its contents. 
This note is provided in accordance with s.54(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001, which provides that the giving of advice in this way is neither that of: : 
(a)the regulated activity of giving advice; nor 
(b)leading or enabling persons to buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite securities or contractually based investments. 
Eurizon SLJ Capital Limited has taken all reasonable care to ensure that the information contained in this document 
is accurate at the time of publication, however no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made as to the 
accuracy, reliability or completeness of such information. 
Landon Thomas, Jr. 
Financial Reporter 
New York Times 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026646 
http jr thomas/index.h  
tml 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026647 
