1
The Computational Structure of Mental Representation
Joscha Bach
joscha.bach@hu-berlin.de
Berlin, February 26th, 2013
Now is the time for starting a new
Artificial Intelligence initiative.
What is the mind?
–this is arguably the most
interesting question that
our species can ask itself.
Last month, a grand proposal by Barack Obama made headlines
everywhere in the world: He suggested a large-­‐scale initiative
to create a detailed map of the activity of the human brain, at
the level of individual neurons. This idea is quite similar to (and
likely inspired by) Henry Markram’s Blue Brain project in
Lausanne, which recently won a 1.5Bn grant from the European
Union. While this is an interesting project in its own right, it
will not address the key question of cognitive science:
What is the mind? What are the building blocks and
fundamental operations of thinking and perception?
Here, I would like to suggest the instigation of a project that is
at once more ambitious, more narrowly targeted, and likely to
yield more profound theoretical, practical and cultural insights
than the Brain Activity Mapping initiative: The study of the
computational structure of mental representation.
Mental representation, not
neurons will inform the
core our understanding of
cognition.
Cognition is incidentally enabled by human nervous systems,
but in its nature, it is not a chemical, biological or physiological
phenomenon. Instead, cognitive systems are a class of
information processing systems, thinking is a set of certain,
functionally identifiable operations, over certain, functionally
identifiable types of representations, and with respect to a set
of problems and properties given by certain environments.
Thus, the Structure of Mental Representation initiative should
focus on mental content, with all its dynamic, relational,
conceptual, and linguistic elements, and it’s grounding in
perception and interaction.
2
The study of mental
representations requires a
new scientific discipline
Integrating concepts from
linguistics, cognitive
psychology and
neuroscience within the
methodological framework
of constructionist Artificial
Intelligence
A new common ground
between AI and cognitive
science researchers
Unraveling mental representations will be an interdisciplinary
effort among several cognitive sciences, but distinct from the
disciplines that we find now:
The project will differ from linguistics, for instance, in similar
way as geography differs from plate tectonics. Where linguists
study the intrinsic ‘geography’ of languages, and the structural
commonalities among them, mental representations uncover
the underlying dynamics that produce natural languages (as
the solutions to the problem of translating between
hierarchical, distributed, associative, ambiguous
representations and the discrete strings of symbols that we use
as a means of exchanging and organizing ideas).
Mental representations lie outside the domain of neuroscience,
which mostly focuses on material descriptions of the function
of the underlying substrate. They cannot be studied well within
contemporary psychology, which favors an experimentalist,
quantitative approach, where we need to address qualitative
questions by constructing working, implementable systems.
And needless to say, the study of mental representations is
currently not well represented in Artificial Intelligence
research, which does provide a productive methodology, but
has mostly turned towards applications and narrow AI
solutions.
Despite the lack of a common methodological ground between
the cognitive sciences, we can now observe a growing
consensus on how to approach the problem of modeling the
mind, and its representational apparatus. During the last
decade, a number of initiatives have sprung up within AI,
psychology and cognitive science, each with journals,
workshops and conference series, and a large personal overlap
among each community. Examples include Artificial General
Intelligence (AGI), Biologically Inspired Cognitive Architectures
(BICA), Cognitive Systems, and Cognitive Modeling (ICCM).
Among those groups, there is an emerging consensus on
several paradigms:
-­‐
-­‐
-­‐
Integrated architectures of cognition. We need to study
whole, working systems, both for the purpose of
comparison between approaches, but mainly, because
cognition is not the product of the activity of individual
modular functions, but of the interaction between them.
Universal representations. Representations must provide
both distributed and localist aspects, to enable neural
learning, information retrieval via spreading activation, as
well as symbolic processing (language and planning).
Perceptual grounding. Representations should be
grounded in an environmental interaction context, using a
bottom-­‐up/top-­‐down perception paradigm, to allow for
3
open-­‐ended autonomous learning and language
acquisition.
-­‐
-­‐
-­‐
-­‐
-­‐
Integration of perception and action. Environmental
interaction is (at least partially) a control process that
requires a modeling of the relationship between sensory
data and operations performed by the system.
(Semi-­‐) Universal problem solving, enabling paradigms
of learning, planning, reasoning, analogies, language
acquisition and reflection.
A structured memory, including provisions for a
world/situation model, a protocol of environmental
interactions, procedural memory, declarative and
typological abstractions, a model of self, and a 'mental
stage', to facilitate anticipation and planning.
Decision making and motivational mechanisms, to
address both autonomous, goal-­‐directed cognition in
complex, open domains, and the genesis of goals and
intentions.
The direction and modulation of attention, and the
emergence of emotion and affect, which are
configurational aspects of cognition that either reflect the
allocation of cognitive resources, or structure social
interaction.
Constraints for Mental Representations
Based on the emergent paradigm of a new generation of
cognitive architectures, we can think about mental
representations in a new and productive way. More specifically,
we know that mental representations include perceptual and
propositional/conceptual content and we are aware of many
constraints. Mental representations must
-­‐
-­‐
-­‐
-­‐
-­‐
-­‐
Offer support for both connectionist and symbolic
processing (including compositionality and grammatical
structures), with the latter one being a special case of the
former
Possess a hierarchical structure, bottoming out in
sensory perception
Cover prototypes, individuals and abstractions
Include perceptual and relational features, objects,
situations, and episodic knowledge
Allow simulation of dynamic processes
Solve the bridge problem between fuzzy associative
hierarchies and the discrete symbol strings of natural
language
4
Creating a scientific community
Operations on these representations include reinforcement
learning and classification, perceptual top-­‐down/bottom-­‐up
processing, abstraction, analogy formation, associative and
syllogistic reasoning, planning, reflection, anticipation and
several modes of reorganization.
The task of the Structure of Mental Representation initiative will
at first consist in the creation of a large and competitive
community, built around a set of benchmark problems.
I suggest picking a set of problems that covers most of the
above architectural requirements: the comprehension of
dynamic visual sequences (movies) and narratives. The
evaluation of comprehension may focus both on a discourse
level (asking the system general and specific questions about
the consumed visuals or narratives) and directly, by producing
dynamic renderings and depictions of knowledge represented
within the system. At least on the discourse level, a direct
comparison to the functional properties of child performance
at different cognitive stages is possible.
The Comprehension
Challenge
Turning the benchmark task into a regular competition allows a
direct comparison between models, and offers a strong
incentive for exchange of solutions among research groups. The
need to for broad solutions with given material and intellectual
resources will enforce a higher degree of the reuse of code and
ideas than we currently see in AI architectures (outside of
robotic soccer, where such competitions have turned out to be
highly successful).
The Formation of a Pilot Team
By structuring the comprehension tasks into different levels
and sub-­‐domains (such as basic language acquisition tasks,
grammar, perceptual and logical tasks, social reasoning/theory
of mind, affective evaluation, constructive problem solving, use
of analogies and metaphor etc.), we can formulate consistent
long-­‐term goals and realistic short-­‐term problems.
To pull the Structure of Mental Representation initiative off the
ground, we will need to create a pilot team, which is the object
of this proposal. The pilot team has the following tasks:
-­‐
-­‐
-­‐
Bring a critically sized group of people together, with a
well-­‐defined set of shared goals
Formulate an initial set of hypotheses
Bring these in the context of an existing or hypothetical
cognitive architecture, so specifications can be derived
5
-­‐
Build an initial software infrastructure for testing
benchmark problems, and to create a common
methodological ground
Composition of a pilot
team
The pilot team should consist of a scientific board, including a
mutually compatible sub-­‐set of contemporary thinkers in the
field. Its core should consist of a new generation of researchers
that have the resources and impetus to work full-­‐time on the
design, implementation and publication of the project’s
infrastructure. The initial team size should not be large, but
agile and effective (I would suggest about five permanent
researchers, about the same number of dedicated software
developers, and 2–3 slots for visiting scientists at a time).
The initial duration should be about 2.5 years, followed be an
evaluation, and a possible continuation of similar length.
Possible candidates for the scientific board include (in no
particular order) Paul Rosenbloom (who worked with Alan
Newell on the cognitive architecture Soar, and now started a
new architecture), John Sowa (well-­‐known for his
groundbreaking work in semantic networks), Ben Goertzel
(designer of the cognitive architecture OpenCog), Luc Steels (an
AI researcher studying the emergence of natural language in
communities of software agents), Jerome Feldman (who
devised building blocks for a Neural Theory of Language),
Stephen Pinker (who thought much about the relationship
between language and mental representation), Stephen
Kosslyn (an expert on the psychology of mental
representation), Daniel Dennet, Cristiano Castelfranchi (an AI
researcher specializing on mental representations of intentions
and social context), and many others.
The project should start out with a number of kickoff
meetings to invite the interaction between suitable candidates,
and the formation of a core group. The eventual pilot team
could be located in many possible places, however, the project
should be able to draw on the vicinity of academic and other
infrastructure, and the influence of a creative environment.
About me (Joscha Bach):
Driven by an interest to learn hot the mind works, I studied philosophy
and psychology, graduated in computer science/artificial intelligence, lead
several small academic research groups, built the cognitive architecture
MicroPsi and obtained a PhD in cognitive science. I co-­‐founded a couple of
startup companies in Berlin, but turned back towards academia to
contribute to the question of how to build a mind.
