From: Richard Kahn 
Sent: 3/25/2013 7:47:22 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: google search 
Importance: High 
just did a jee google and thought it looked very good... 
Search Results 
1. Jeffrey Epstein - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia  
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeffrey Epstein 
Jeffrey Edward Epstein (born January 20, 1953) is an American financier and science and education 
philanthropist. He is responsible for founding The Program ... 
Life - Financial career - Science funding - Solicitation of prostitution 
2. Jeffrey Epstein: International Moneyman of Mystery  
nymag.com/nymetro/news/people/n 7912/ 
He's pals with a passel of Nobel Prize—winning scientists, CEOs like Leslie Wexner of the Limited, socialite 
Ghislaine Maxwell, even Donald Trump. But it wasn't ... 
3. Billionaire Jeffrey Epstein: I'm a sex offender, not a predator ...  
www.nypost.com/.../pery don shmear me GIYVOfJYoWleFsSTrQ...  
Feb 25, 2011 — Billionaire pervert Jeffrey Epstein is back in New York City -- and making wisecracks about his 
just-ended jail stint for having sex with an ... 
4. JEFFREY EPSTEIN VI FOUNDATION: Home  
wwwjeffreyepsteinfoundation.com/ 
Jeffrey Epstein, Holds a Conference of Nobel Laureates to Define Gravity ... The conference was financed by 
science philanthropist Jeffrey Epstein and his ... 
5. Jeffrey Epstein  
www.huffingtonpost.com/news/jeffrey-epstein 
Disgraced billionaire money manager (and former Bill Clinton associate) Jeffrey Epstein is back in New York 
City after 13 months of jail time for soli. 
6. Jeffrey Epstein Science  
wwwjeffreyepsteinscience.com/ 
An overview of Jeffrey Epstein Science and the Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation, the universities and the 
scientists that have received support. 
7. The Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation  
wwwjeffreyepsteinnsvi.com/ 
Recent articles on Jeffrey Epstein USVI philanthropy from New York and the USVI. 
8. Jeff Epstein profiles I LinkedIn  
www.linkedin.com/pub/dir/Jeff/Epstein 
View the profiles of professionals named Jeff Epstein on LinkedIn. There are 25 professionals named Jeff 
Epstein, who use LinkedIn to exchange information, ... 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029336 
9. Jeff N. Epstein, PhD  
www.cincinnatichildrens.org/bio/e/jeff-epstein/ 
Jeff N. Epstein, PhD, is the director of the Center for ADHD and a professor of pediatrics for the Division of 
Behavioral Medicine and Clinical Psychology at ... 
10. Katie Couric, Woody Allen: Jeffrey Epstein 's Society Friends Close ...  
www.thedailybeast.com/.../bill-chnton-katie-couric-woody-allen-jeffr.. 
Apr 1, 2011 — Despite the pedophile mogul's conviction for soliciting underage prostitution, his circle is 
standing by their man. Scientists whose research ... 
Searches related to jeffrey epstein 
jeffrey epstein scandal  
jeffrey epstein net worth  
jeffrey epstein disney  
jeffrey epstein vanity fair  
jeffrey epstein forbes  
jeffrey epstein plastic surgeon  
jeffrey epstein rhinoplasty 
jeffrey epstein hair transplant  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029337 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
More images  
Jeffrey Epstein 
Financier 
Jeffrey Edward Epstein is an American financier and science and education philanthropist. He is responsible for 
founding The Program for Evolutionary Dynamics at Harvard University, the first of its ... Wikipedia 
Born: January 20, 1953 (age 60), Brooklyn  
People also search for 
Prince Andrew, Duke of Y...  
7 s 
Ghislaine Maxwell 
Les Wexner  
11 
Martin Nowak  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029338 
Feedback / More info 
Sarah, Duchess of York 
12345678910Next 
Advanced searchSearch HelpSend feedback 
Google HomeAdvertising ProgramsBusiness SolutionsPrivacy & TermsAbout Google 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029339 
