Robin Solomon 
EXECUTIVE PROFILE 
In a career spanning three decades in academic medicine, Robin Solomon has combined patient care, clinical 
research, philanthropy and business development expertise to build strategic alliances, institutional 
recognition and revenue. In evolving leadership roles, she has developed a reputation for her clear and 
effective communication style, innovative programming, quick grasp of new situations and common sense 
approaches to difficult problems. 
Robin is recognized for her comprehensive understanding of the healthcare sector, including operating 
models, the political and regulatory environment, shifting demographics, financial opportunities and 
economic trends. Her 18 years as an ICU nurse informs the way she navigates the patient experience on a 
human level, collaborates with physicians, and persuasively conveys philanthropic opportunities to donors. 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
The Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, N.Y. (1993-2016) 
Vice President Special Projects, Office of the President (2015-present) 
• Receive and direct high-level medical and administrative inquiries from the Board and donor 
community. Manage transition of prior responsibilities to the Executive Services group. 
• Secure philanthropic support, oversee medical procedures and personal care for several global health 
patients in collaboration with Dr. Randall Owen and his team. 
Vice President, Trustee Services (2005-2015) 
Director of Development (2002-2005) 
Launched and led a Donor Relations program to provide high-touch, best in class 24/7 medical navigation 
and oversight for trustees, donors and patients referred by leadership and staff. Established and maintained 
philanthropic relationships with corporations, law firms and financial companies including Goldman Sachs, 
Paul Weiss Rifkind, Schulte Roth, Donna Karan, Warner Music and Federated Department Stores. Extended 
the Mount Sinai Medical Center brand to a broader patient base. 
• Raised over $29 million in donations from individuals, corporations and foundations. 
• Co-chaired and ran "A Toast to Health" an annual wine benefit. Raised over $17 million dollars 
over nine years. Consistently attained over 85% event underwriting. 
• Directed philanthropic funds to capital projects including emergency room upgrade, complete 
renovation of the Neonatal and Pediatric ICU's and state-of-the art modernization of a medical 
school lecture hall. 
• Provided $2.8 million for scholarships to The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, the single largest 
donation to date. Supported programs including, Visiting Doctors, Palliative Care Fellowships, 
perinatal bereavement social work and emergency medicine residency training. 
• Engaged three new Trustees and four new members of the Mindich Child Health and Development 
Institute Advisory Board who collectively contributed over $10 million. 
• Generated physician referrals resulting in hundreds of additional surgical admissions and over $20 
million in incremental revenue each year. 
• Managed refurbishing of ten family waiting areas. Obtained $1 million in pro bono services by 
notable decorators. Handled all logistics and ensured compliance with infection control regulations. 
1. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015672 
Global Health Project Leader (2002-2015) 
Planned and executed medical missions with global health experts: 
Haiti Earthquake Response. At the request of President Clinton's office, arranged for physicians and 
medical supplies to be sent with first responders in the days following the earthquake in 2010. Collaborated 
with Dr. Paul Farmer of Partners in Health to re-open the University Hospital in Port au Prince. 
• Organized transport of 5 full surgical teams and all required equipment. Over ten days, the teams 
treated 400 patients and performed 50 surgeries. 
• Personally requested emergency use of corporate jet from CEO of Honeywell and delivered needed 
supplies during the early days of the mission. 
• Communicated with military leaders to obtain necessary landing slots, protection from the 82nd 
Airborne, and tents from USAID to house patients and orphans. 
• Negotiated resupply without cost of all supplies and medications provided by Mount Sinai. 
Liberia Medical Missions. Patients received the first chemotherapy in Liberia and a pap screening clinic 
was opened in Monrovia in 2014 in response to the large number of advanced stage cancers diagnosed during 
annual missions. Program continued through 2014, to resume post-Ebola. 
• Coordinated directly with Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and her ministers in 2007, 2008. 
• Obtained private funding to send 30 physicians, medical students and support personnel to provide 
medical care and surgical intervention. 
Director of Strategic Initiatives (2001-2002) 
Planned and facilitated an 18-month program of events to commemorate the institution's 150th anniversary, 
reporting to the Executive Vice President and Board of Trustees. Highlights included: opening ceremony 
with Mayor Bloomberg, archival retrospective at the Museum of the City of New York, Community Health 
Day with free medical services and screenings to over 1500 attendees, and an Academic Symposium. 
• Secured $800,000 in corporate sponsorship across the portfolio of events. 
• Oversaw contract and filming of documentary video on the history of Mount Sinai Hospital. 
Assistant Dean for Clinical Trial Operations and Business Development (1998-2001) 
Designed and managed the Office of Clinical Trials, a key organizational and operational component 
advancing clinical trials and translational research. Developed strategic and operational plans. Prepared 
grant applications and negotiated contracts for extramural funding involving federal, industry and non-profit 
foundations. Attended and organized research conferences. Strengthened overall regulatory compliance and 
fiscal compliance with third party payors. 
• Launched marketing and outreach program to convey Mount Sinai's research capabilities. 
• Attracted ongoing contracts and right of first refusal in phase III clinical trials (with appropriate 
patient populations) from Novartis, Smith Kline Beecham, Amgen and Pfizer and other 
pharmaceutical and biotech companies. 
• Grew research revenue by increasing clinical trials by 40% and patient enrollment by over 320% 
annually, from inception. 
• Secured $12 million in NIH funding and ran program on a $1.5 million budget resulting in a 
profitable operation beginning in year one. 
• Facilitated contracts between faculty and pharmaceutical and biotech companies resulting in 
$500,000 in funding for investigator initiated research projects. 
• Awarded $5 million grant from the American Heart Association after reworking a previously 
submitted and unfunded NIH grant proposal. 
• Attained membership in the Smith Kline Beecham Development Partners Program and $500,000 
annually in upfront quarterly payments to ensure consistency among clinical research coordinators. 
2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015673 
• Created a career track for Clinical Research Coordinators including ACRP certification opportunities 
and a centralized pool of research coordinators to promote steady workflow. 
• Commissioned an audit of 10% of all active human subject trials for compliance to good clinical 
practice (GCP). Collaborated with Institutional Review Board (IRB) Chair when remediation was 
necessary. Sat on the IRB. 
• Invited by Dr. Barry Coller, Chairman of Medicine to join the Patient Oriented Research Committee. 
Senior Research Coordinator, Division of Infectious Diseases (1993-1997) 
Collaborated with the Hospital Epidemiologist as Senior Research Coordinator on a CDC multicenter study 
to measure the effects of using safety devices to draw blood, start W's and give injections to determine if 
they decreased needle sticks in healthcare workers. The device companies (Johnson and Johnson, Becton 
Dickenson and Vacupro) extended the study solely at The Mount Sinai Hospital. This research opened the 
multi-billion dollar market for safety devices. 
• Hired study personnel. Arranged with Procurement to cancel contracts to remove non-study devices 
from the institution. 
• Inserviced 3000 nurses and physicians on the use of the study devices. 
• Audited sterilized used "sharps boxes" to assess implementation rates of the study devices. 
• Included as a co-author of an article in Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. 
Cornell University Medical College, New York, N.Y. (1986-1993) 
Department of Child Development, Research Nurse Coordinator 
Coordinated a National Institute of Mental Health funded pediatric study. Recruited subjects, developed tools 
to achieve stated research goals, implemented research protocols, analyzed data and prepared reports. 
Department of Surgery Research Nurse Specialist 
Established initial infrastructure and managed a multi-site surgical metabolism laboratory consisting of 4 
full-time surgical fellows with an annual budget of $800,000. The study data and collaboration with Dr. 
Anthony Cerami's laboratory at Rockefeller University supported Dr. Kevin Tracy's seminal work on tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF). Implemented federally funded research protocols. Procured and managed supplies. 
Recruited control subjects and hospitalized inpatient subjects and obtained informed consent. 
• Assisted physician researchers with all clinical and laboratory aspects of the study including 
processing, cataloging, transporting and storing specimens. 
• Carried out study protocols for ICU inpatient and outpatient human subjects. 
• Prepared submissions for IRB approval to assure patient safety and regulatory compliance. 
Critical Care Registered Nurse, New York, N.Y. (1988-1997) 
Neonatal ICU nurse at Mount Sinai, New York Hospital, Lenox Hill Hospital, Columbia-Presbyterian 
Hospital, contracted through a hospital staffing agency. 
New York Hospital, New York, N.Y. (1979-1988) 
Registered Nurse, Neonatal ICU. Delivered care to critically ill infants. Supervised ancillary personnel, 
assigned nursing staff, maintained detailed written records and electronic medical records for all patients. 
EDUCATION 
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts. M.S. Exercise Physiology, Cum Laude, 1987. 
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida. B.S. Nursing, Cum Laude, 1979. 
3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 015674 
