From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
G Maxwell 
1/11/2015 1:25:56 PM 
J Jep [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Fw: 
THE TERRAMAR PROJECT 
FACEBOOK 
TWITTER 
G+ 
PINTEREST 
INSTAGRAM 
PLEDGE 
THE DAILY CATCH 
From: Philip Barden 
Sent: Sunday, 11 January 2015 05:27 
To: __________ 
Cc: G Maxwell 
Subject: Re: 
> 
Saying nothing is reputational suicide. Even if. is discredited by people will know JE paid her off and 
believe G was complicate absent a credible denial. 
Now it is reported that G engaged in direct abuse - as I feared would happen. Next reports to the authorities will 
be made. 
It is necessary from a litigation, investigatory and reputational reason to issue a cogent denial. 
I can see why JE doesn't want this as it may not suit him but he is already toast. 
Philip 
Sent from my iPhone 
On 10 Jan 2015, at 18:42,' 
> wrote: 
Had Geordie on the phone half a dozen times today. 
He would have give us a better hearing than most I figure. 
Strongly believe saying nothing is the wrong thing - especially as Dershowitz has a big piece coming in The 
Times on Monday. 
Rest up and speak Monday 
Best 
Ross 
Sent from my BlackBerry0 wireless device 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030295 
From: Philip Barden < 
Date: Sat, 10 Jan 2015 18:27:12 +0000 
To: G Maxwell>> 
Cc: Ross G°w> 
Subject: Re: 
All 
I am back on line now. 
I see the statement didn't go. Monday? Maybe tomorrow? 
> 
I will speak to Jeffery Epstein's lawyer but JE has a conflict with you and will want your silence as whilst you 
are being attacked there is less heat on him. 
Either is lying or not. If we let her lie without challenge then the lies become the reality and 
that may lead to you facing investigation. These are serious allegations and In the UK prosecuting people who 
face allegations of sex abuse is now common place and a lot of resources are focused on this. 
We can't sit back and let you be a conspirator by silence. 
Your are not guilty and must follow Dershowtiz line. He is a leading lawyer and he hasn't followed the don't say 
anything for fear of litigation. He has rightly called . bluff and shouted his innocence. 
You have to stand up and deny the allegations or be branded guilty by association and that may lead to other 
investigations and worse. 
I feel I am going around in circles. 
I know what is right to do and that is to shout your innocence. 
Try and get some rest. Call me tomorrow if you want anytime. 
Speak to Deshowitz. 
Don't allay yourself to JE as that is not the way to go. 
Best 
Philip 
Sent from my iPhone 
On 10 Jan 2015, at 16:02, "G Maxwell" 
wrote: 
I am out of my depth to understanding defamation and other legal hazards and don't want to end up in a law suit 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030296 
aimed at me from anyone if I can help it. Apparently even saying is a her has hazard! I have never 
been in a suit criminal or civil and want it to stay that way. 
The US lawyers for the Jane Does are filling additional discovery motions and if I speak I open my self to being 
part of discovery apparently. I am trying to stay out of litigation and not have to employ lawyers for years as I 
get lost in US legal nightmare. I stand no legal risk currently on these old charges and civil suits against Jeffrey 
We need to consult with US lawyers on any statement I make and the complaints too 
Perhaps we make a statement of the legal risk of saying anything for potential defamation or something that 
prevents a full and frank detailed rebuttal + the press not being the place for that? Regardless, Philip plse call 
jeffrey lawyer and see what you can understand from him and pehaps craft something in conjunction with him? 
Either way I think you need to speak to him to understand my risk so you can help me understand it - too may 
cooks in the kitchen and I can't make good decisions. Plse reach out to him today 
+ I have already suffered such a terrible and painful loss over the last few days that I can't even see what life 
after press he'll even looks like - statements that don't address all just lead to more questions. .what is my 
relationship to clinton ? Andrew on and on. 
Let's rest till monday. I need head space 
THE TERRAMAR PROJECT 
FACEBOOK 
TWITTER 
G+ 
PINTEREST 
INSTAGRAM 
PLEDGE 
THE DAILY CATCH 
This email is intended for the addressee named within only. It may contain legally privileged or confidential 
information. If you are not the named individual you should not read this email and if you do so, you must not 
under any circumstances make use of the information therein. If you have read this email and it is not addressed 
to you, please notify IT@devonshires.co.uk<mailto:IT@devonshires.co.uk> and confirm that it has been 
deleted from your system and no copies made. 
This Firm is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority under the name of Devonshires 
Solicitors and registration number 0049857. This Firm does not accept service by electronic mail or facsimile. 
A list of partners, together with further legal statements, is available upon request or at 
www.devonshires.co.uk/terms-and-conditions/legal-notices.html<http://www.devonshires.co.uk/terms-and-
conditions/legal-notices.html>  
Devonshires Solicitors, 30 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7DT tel 
fax 
Where instructions have been given by Devonshires Solicitors to a barrister to work on a client's matter, we 
notify you, on behalf of that barrister, that you have the right to make a complaint about the service provided by 
that barrister or about the conduct of their Chambers. A copy of the barrister and / or their Chambers' 
complaints procedure may be obtained by contacting the Senior Clerk of that Chambers, whose contact details 
can be found online, or from us. Complaints may be made direct to the barrister / their Chambers. Please note 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030297 
that there may be a time limit for bringing your complaint. You may also have the right to ask the Legal 
Ombudsman to consider your complaint at the end of the complaints process. Information on complaints to the 
Legal Ombudsman, including the details of strict time limits to bring a complaint, may be found at 
http://www.legalombudsman.org.uk.  
The Devonshires Foundation is proud to support Action for Kids (reg. charity 1068841), Wide horizons (reg. 
charity 1105847), and Theatre Royal Stratford East (reg. charity 233801) during 2013/2014. Please consider the 
environment before printing this email. 
Please consider the environment before printing this email. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030298 
