New issue emerges in Jeffrey Epstein sex offender easel www.palmbeachdailynews.com Page 1 of 1 
Tuesday, Nov. 24, 2016 I 
Palm 'dead 
29 a.m, 
the shiny sheet 
Posted: 7:00 a.m. Tuesday. Nov. 24, 2016 
Epstein victims "complicit" so not truly victims, government 
says 
Subscribe I oPaper 
Related 
By Michele Dorgan 
Deily News Staff Writer 
A routine status check Monday on a 2008 federal lawsuit tied to sex offender Jeffrey Epstein's plea deal ended with a new allegation from the government. 
The two victims who filed the lawsuit — Jane Doe No. 1 and Jane Doe No, 2 — aren't actually victims because they procured other yids for Epstein and received money for it, 
Assistant United States Attorney Dexter Lee said In West Palm Beach 'federal court, 
If someone "is complicit in the offenses," they can't be considered victims tinder the federal Crime Victims' Rights Act, Lee said. 
"A Crime Victims' Rights Ad action is part of a_criminal proceeding normally, but there:s nothing.nomial about this ease," be said, 
Doe 1 and 2 are among tflora than two dozen underage girls who filed awstits or settled claims against Epstein, alleging they were lured to his Palm Beach mansion to give him 
sexually charged massages and/or sex in exchange for money. They were 14 and 13 at the time. 
"Today is the first we've heard that the victims were complicit and this disqualifies them," said victims' attorney Brad Edwards. 'This is an additional issue, which will lead to other 
Issues," 
Edwards added that although only two victims are named as plaintiffs, hey represent dozens of victims who were named by the government as having been victimized by Epstein. 
Edwards said he plans to have other victims testify at trial. 
Doe 1 and 2 etc trying to overturn a federal non-prosecution agreement struck between Epstein and federal prosecutors without notice to the victims — a violation of the victims' rights 
act. The agreement kept Epstein from facing serious federal charges and extensive prison time, 
Epstein signed the agreement in September 2007, but victims weren't notified until January and May 2008, according to entails and court documents, 
As part of the deal, Epstein pleaded guilty to Iwo state charges In June 2008, serving 13 months of an 18-month prison sentence in a vacant wing of the Palm Beach County stockade. 
He was awarded liberal work-releaso privileges. 
In January, another Epstein victim alleged in court papers that Epstein treed her to have sex with Britain's Prince Andrew and high-profile attorney Alan Dershowitz when she was a 
minor. Both have vigorously denied her claims. Dershowitz and Edwards aro suing each other in Broward County Circuit Court, alleging defamation. 
Edwards told U.S. District Judge Kenneth Mama that he and attorney Paul Cassell will file a 60-page motion for summary judgment by Dec. 15.1f that motion is denied, Edwards said 
he thinks it would be possible that the case could be ready for trial by mid-summer. 
That was before Lee interjected the new Issue. 
"There are no deadlines at this point," Marra said, 'That is the reason for this hearing, so that It doesn't tiger," 
Marra asked both sides to get together in the next few weeks and "agree on a schedule to gel things done.' 
After the hearing, Edwards said, I'm disappointed that they would ellerml to call these girls anything less than victims and It's no doubt offensive to the victims, To raise this Issue for 
the first time eight years later Is not right." 
it) 
More News 
Promoted Stories 
• Suicide of a Dishonest Officer She New York thee) 
• Homeowners aged 62+ are using this neat retirement tip (South morids 
A Wealth) 
• Every Woman Should Have These 10 Pieces of Jewelry fiViarys.rorin 
• .5 Reasons You Should Stay Longer in Bed. You Might Be Surprised (Abbott) 
Breastfeeding MOrn Shoots Intruder to Savo Baby (tufeZotto) 
• 2016's Best New Minivans You Don't Want to Miss (crony B1113 Book) 
Comments 
If you would like to post a comment please Sign in or Register 
<inig height."1" viridth+"1" erc="htlp://segmen 
You Might Also Like 
• Analysis: Wily vision to reopen Playhouse failed 
• Donald Trump's nephew sells Palm Beach house for $9M 
• Cawalrs inspired creations for summer 
• Palm Beach police: Impaired man crashes into Sloan's Curve well 
• Midtown townhouse fetches $5.6 minion; furnishings sold separately 
• Charleston couple pays $3.2 million for North End house 
dap.tivklataRporecruemedlallc&typeogif&segment= 045addatrue 
Recommended by 
http://www.palmbeachdailynews.com/news/news/local/epstein-victims-complicit-so-not-t... 11/24/2015 
