From: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 12/19/2015 2:28:32 PM 
To: Ed 
Subject: Re: My review today in wsj of conspiracy theories 
Importance: High 
could i pay you to organzie my story into a coherent presentation. . probaly a six- 9 moth job. 
On Fri, Dec 18, 2015 at 10:36 PM, Ed wrote: 
They're Not Really Out to Get You 
By EDWARD JAY EPSTEIN 
Dec. 18, 2015, Wall Street Journal 
1 
Conspiracy, a word derived from the Latin "to breathe together," has been a salient part of the darker side of 
recorded history ever since some 60 conspirators in the Roman senate, including Brutus and Cassius, plotted 
together to assassinate Julius Caesar in 44 B.C. Nowadays the "C" word does not always sit well with 
journalists, who commonly employ it in conjunction with "theory" to describe paranoid distortions of reality. 
Even so, a criminal conspiracy is not a rare phenomenon. Not only was a foreign conspiracy responsible for the 
monstrous 9/11 attack on the World Trade Center (as well as the previous attempt to blow it up in 1993) but, 
according to the Center on Law and Security at Fordham University, over 90% of routine federal indictments 
for terrorist attacks since 9/11 contain at least one conspiracy charge. The government's pursuit of conspiracies 
is by no means limited to terrorism. Conspiracy charges are the rule rather than the exception in cases brought 
against businessmen accused of fixing prices, evading environmental regulations, using insider information or 
laundering money. 
But there are also pseudo-conspiracies that exist only in a delusionary or misinformed mind. And some of 
them achieve a huge following. In Pakistan, according to public opinion polls, a majority of the population 
believes that the 9/11 attack was staged by President George W. Bush to launch a war on Islam. The claim that 
the 1969 moon landing was faked is still around. Just two days ago a crew from a Russian TV channel rushed 
to my apartment to interview me about a viral post on YouTube in which the deceased director Stanley 
Kubrick supposedly made a deathbed confession to having filmed the landing in a Hollywood studio—even 
though everything about the post, including a fake Kubrick, was untrue. 
Why people believe in pseudo-conspiracies is the focus of Rob Brotherton's fascinating book "Suspicious 
Minds." Mr. Brotherton, an academic psychologist, advances the thesis that the belief in pseudo-conspiracies 
proceeds from the "quirks and foibles" in the way that the human brain, or at least some human brains, process 
evidence. He lucidly reviews studies showing common defects in the brain's wiring, such as the bias that 
selects evidence to confirm rather than undermine a pre-adopted thesis. "We seek what we expect to find," as 
Mr. Brotherton puts it. Relatedly, "biased assimilation" causes us to "interpret ambiguous events in light of 
what we already believe." 
Discussing Richard Hofstadter's 1964 essay "The Paranoid Style in American Politics," Mr. Brotherton 
accepts Hofstadter's characterization of proponents of politically motivated conspiracy theories as "paranoid" 
and suffering from "a psychic phenomenon" that prevents them from seeing the absurdity of their position. But 
he disagrees with Hofstadter that this condition affects only a small number of people on the fringes of society. 
For Mr. Brotherton, "conspiracy theories thrive in the mainstream." 
Until the controversy over the validity of Warren Commission's 1966 report on the Kennedy assassination, the 
phrase "conspiracy theory" had a more neutral meaning, suggesting a plausible yet unproven claim about 
multiple actors in a single event. Only in the aftermath of the Warren Commission did it become a derogatory 
term used to suggest theories that subvert conventional wisdom. To those who doubted the commission's 
finding that a single gunman killed Kennedy, Earl Warren became, Mr. Brotherton's says, the "figurehead in a 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031607 
vast cover-up." 
It is not easy to find an objective criterion that distinguishes the inquiry into a real conspiracy from one that 
chases a pseudo-conspiracy. Both types rely are the eyewitnesses, documents and forensic evidence. The best 
that Mr. Brotherton can offer on this score is to cite Stewart Potter's famous comment on pornography: "I 
know it when I see it." In the context of suspicious minds, though, one person might see a plausible case for a 
conspiracy and another only outlandish connections. The distinction is in the mind of the beholder. 
Mr. Brotherton offers a sample list of conspiracy theories, including ones alleging that Abraham Lincoln was 
assassinated on the orders of his vice president; that the moon landing was faked; that Area 51 in New Mexico 
is home to extra-terrestrial technology under government auspices; that President Obama is "a communist 
Muslim from Kenya." Such theories are meant to show that suspicious minds leap to absurd conclusions. 
These are chosen because there is no evidence to support them. 
The picture changes, however, if we consider, for example, the theory claiming that Lincoln's assassin, John 
Wilkes Booth was part of a larger conspiracy backed by the Confederacy. On April 14, 1865, at about the same 
time that Booth shot Lincoln, one of his associates stabbed Secretary of State William Seward and another 
stalked Vice President Andrew Johnson with a loaded gun. The military commission appointed by President 
Johnson, after hearing 371 witnesses testify and after examining Confederate bank transfers and cipher 
communications, concluded that the three attacks were part of a conspiracy sponsored by the Confederacy and 
convicted eight of Booth's associates, four of whom were hanged. Here we have a conspiracy theory 
proceeding not from crackpots but from a government commission backed by the new president and most 
members of Lincoln's cabinet. 
Clearly the defects in the brain's wiring that lead to crazy theories may lead to the confirmation of theories that 
are adopted by rational people. Indeed, the confirmation bias can work in contradictory ways: confirming not 
only conspiracy theories but the impulse to reject them in favor of conventional wisdom. Can this defect be 
corrected? Here I am reminded of a Woody Allen's absolutely brilliant 1996 comedy "Everyone Says I Love 
You," in which the once-liberal son of a New York liberal family starts spouting conservative theories until a 
doctor solves the problem by restoring the proper flow of oxygen to his brain. The movie has a happy ending 
when the son goes back to spouting his family's liberal theories. While Mr. Brotherton offers no such remedy 
to our brain's defects, he does offer a thought-provoking analysis and an appealing guide to thinking about 
conspiracies, real and imagined. 
—Mr. Epstein most recent book is "The Annals of Unsolved Crimes." He is currently writing a book about 
Edward Snowden. 
http://www.wsj . com/article s/theyre-not-really-out-to-get-you-1450471512 
Happy New Year 
Ed 
www.edwardjayepstein.com  
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031608 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031609 
