From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 10/27/2014 3:53:38 PM 
To: Lisa Ne 
Subject: Re: writing up proposal 
Importance: High 
I think the proposal for 500k is optimistic but can't hurt. . 
On Mon, Oct 27, 2014 at 9:48 AM, Lisa New <_________ 
Dear Jeffrey, 
> wrote: 
Larry has told me that you and a friend would like to contribute to my project (hallelujah and thank you a 
million times, Jeffrey) and that I ought to write up a proposal asking for 500,000. This is wonderful. If this 
comes to pass, the best way for that money to come, I think, is as a gift to Poetry in America, an initiative at 
EdLabs at Harvard University. This will give me discretion over its disbursement to HarvardX and WGBH, 
but this will be absolutely be a Harvard gift that will count as Campaign success and from which Harvard will 
take some (but not as much)overhead. . So far the best finance people I've met are at EdLabs and they are 
happy to manage these funds for me. There are other ways to give me this money that leave Harvard out, but 
my understanding is that your friend would like this to be a Harvard gift. 
Here's a draft of what I'd like to do with that money. 
I'd like 500,000 to do post-production and distribution of a whole historical period of American poetry (1914-
1945 is what I'm thinking—Modernism) and including three episodes of tv. 
The raw materials for that period include interviews with Bill Clinton (including footage not yet used by 
WGBH), Peter Gallison, Walter Isaacson, Lena Dunham, Woody Allen (whose lawyers didn't like our release 
a while ago, but we're hoping will soften over time), Harrison Ford (still a maybe), Robert Polito, Sarah Kay, 
Al Filreis, Rafael Campo, Susan Howe, kids from Nantucket High School, kids from Brookline High 
School, Alfre Woodard, Jane Pickering, Jay Parini, Ray Dalio, Leon Wieseltier, Richard Dawkins and others; 
and footage shot in Harlem, Greenwich Village, midtown, Chicago, London (if I have the money to hire a 
crew there; don't now ), at museums including the Fogg, Harvard Museum of Natural History, Frost's house in 
Ripton Vermont and more. 
This allows the donor to give to a big Harvard Campaign priority, Teaching and Learning , by supporting 
Poetry in America, allowing me to produce the crucial segment of the online course with the highest (TV 
quality) production values and so also supplying higher quality video to WGBH as a way also to cut their 
costs. 
Currently, HarvardX skimps (on lighting, for instance--see the Bill Clinton interview) and while WGBH ladles 
money raised by others into everything. I have been pounding away at my friends at WGBH and I know that 
WGBH producer will work with HarvardX if they can give him footage of the right quality. . That is, we'll use 
HarvardX as the backlot for WGBH so as to squeeze three episodes out for 250. 
This proposal does not include experiments in schools or the curricular development into courses for teachers 
that you've seen in other (million dollar ) proposals. But the courses for teachers can't happen before the 
footage is developed, and these courses will have as their centerpiece the WGBH episodes, and so this funding 
will make all the rest possible. 
I can polish this narrative and or edit it, if there are things you think I have wrong. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029221 
And I can attach a draft budget based on real Harvard numbers (what my Harvard video editor, producer, 
media manager cost) as well as a draft WGBH budget I'll now go an negotiate with them. Or we can do that at 
a second stage. 
Let me know what you think? And when are we reading Whitman together. Why don't we set a date for Feb 
when Poetry in America 3: Whitman is running online and we could screen a little video and then have a 
discussion around your table with you and some friends? 
Lisa 
Elisa New 
Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature 
Harvard University 
148 Barker Center 
12 Quincy Street 
Cambridge, MA 
02138 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029222 
