Date: Sunday, April 3 2011 08:44 PM 
From: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@grnail.corn> 
To: Lesley Groff 
Posted 02 August 2010 - 12:47 AM 
Jeffrey Epstein, Jew Billionaire Pedophile, Child Trafficker Goes Free..WoW! 20 year old Hearsay is enough to destroy catholic 
priest. What happened here to the justice system? 
Conchita Sarnoff 
http://www.thedailyb...hile- goes-free/ 
Conchita Sarnoff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500 companies and has produced three current events 
debate television programs, The Americas Forum, From Beirut to Kabul, and a segment for The Oppenheimer Report. She is writing a 
book about child trafficking in America. 
Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a depraved world of thrice-daily massages, 
pornographic artwork, and hush money—that's only now being revealed. Conchita Sarnoff follows up on her investigation of the legal 
wrangling that saved him from a long prison term and reports on the sordid details in part two of her exclusive exposé. Also: 
• Palm Beach's police chief objected to Epstein's "special treatment" and gave The Daily Beast an exclusive look at his nine-hour 
deposition about the investigation. 
• Earlier versions of the U.S attorney's charaes. includina a sealed 53-naae indictment, could have landed Epstein in nrison for 20 years. 
• Victims  a lle creel that Epstein mn1PctPd iindPra tTP trirls from South America. FurnnP and the former Soviet rPnriblicc includinu three 19- 
year-old girls brought over from France as a birthday gift. 
• The victims also alleged trips out of state and abroad on Epstein's private jets, which would be evidence of sex trafficking—a much 
more serious federal crime than the state charges Epstein was convicted of. 
• Epstein's attorneys investigated members of the Palm Beach Police Department, while others ordered private investigators to follow and 
intimidate the victims' families; one even posed as a police officer. 
• Then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales told The Daily Beast that he "would have instructed the Justice Department to pursue justice 
without making a political mess." 
Film director Roman Polanski is not the only convicted pedophile to walk free this month and return to a life of privilege. On Wednesday, 
hedge fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completes his one-year house arrest in Palm Beach, which has been even less arduous than Polanski's 
time at a Swiss ski chalet. 
Watch Jeffrey Epstein Storm Out of a Deposition When Asked About His Penis 
During Epstein's term of "house arrest," he made several trips each month to his New York home and his private Caribbean island. In the 
earlier stage of his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor-13 months in the Palm Beach Stockade—he was allowed out to his 
office each day. Meanwhile, Epstein has settled more than a dozen lawsuits brought by the underage girls who were recruited to perform 
"massages" at his Palm Beach mansion. Seven victims reached a last-minute deal last week, days before a scheduled trial; each received 
well over $1 million—an amount that will hardly dent Epstein's $2 billion net worth. 
• Conchita Sarnoff: Epstein Faces Sex Traffic Probe 
• The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den 
With that, the known victims of Epstein's sexual compulsion have been officially silenced, and the case against him is closed unless new 
ones come forward. According to banking et-Inn-pc he ha c heen mnvina accetc niit nf the T IS and may well follow Pnlanclri intn 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029625 
luxurious exile. 
But the question remains: Did Epstein's wealth and social connections—former President Bill Clinton; Prince Andrew; former Israeli 
Prime Minister Ehud Barak; New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson; and former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers were just a few of the 
prominent passengers on his private jets—allow him to receive only a slap on the wrist for crimes that carry a mandatory 20-year 
sentence? Was he able, with his limitless assets and heavy-hitting lawyers—Alan Dershowitz, Gerald Lefcourt, Roy Black, Kenneth Starr, 
Guy Lewis, and Martin Weinberger among them—to escape equal justice? 
Epstein Faces Sex-Traffic Probe 
http://www.thedailyb...obref=obnetwork 
The Justice Denartment is investigating Jeffrey Enstein for child trafficking The Daily Beast has learned—and has widened the scone n 
its probe to include a famous modeling agency. 
Hedge-fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completed his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor last week. But it appears his problems 
may not be over. Now The Daily Beast has learned that: 
• Federal investigators continue to investigate Epstein's activities, to see whether there is evidence of child trafficking—a far more serious 
charge than the two in his non-prosecution agreement, the arrangement between Epstein and the Depat___Intent of Justice allowing him to 
nlearl cmiltv to lnwer-level ctate rrimec Trafficking can ran-v a 911-vear centenre 
• The FF1T is also investigating Enstein's friend Jean T tic flninel whose MC2 modeling agency annears to have been a source of girls from 
'-
overseas who ended up on Epstein's private jets. 
D 
Because Epstein's predatory habits stretch back many years and involved dozens of young-looking girls, there may well be more evidence 
to uncover. 
Under the concept of double ieopardy, Epstein can no longer be prosecuted for any of the charges covered by his non-prosecution 
agreement, in which he agreed to serve a short term of incarceration, fund the civil suits of named victims, and register as a sex offender. 
The victims who accepted cash settlements in these civil suits agreed not to 
testifyagainst him or speak publicly about the case. However, 
- 
new evidence developed by the Depal___Intent of Justice on other offenses not covered by the agreement, 
victims who come forward, could lead to new charges. There is no statute of limitations in the federal sex-trafficking law, which was also 
enacted by the state of Florida in 2002. Because his predatory habits stretch back many years and involved dozens of young-looking girls, 
there may well be more evidence to uncover. (Several young women who claim to be Epstein victims have recently contacted a Ft. 
Lauderdale lawyer, but to date no new civil complaints have been filed.) 
including allegations by additional 
• Conchita Sarnoff: The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den 
• Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free 
These new developments come one week after the publication of two articles in The Daily Beast about Epstein's pattern of sexual contact 
with underage girls, which Palm Beach police began investigating in 2005 and the U.S. Attorney's office then settled in a 2007 plea deal. 
The first article quoted a deposition by then-Palm Beach Chief of Police Michael Reiter, in which he stated that Epstein, a billionaire with 
many powerful friends, had received special treatment in both his plea deal and the terms of his incarceration. Although federal 
investigators at one point produced a draft 53-page indictment against Epstein, he was eventually allowed to plead guilty to only two 
relatively minor state charges and receive a short term of incarceration: 13 months in the county jail, during which he went to the office 
every day, and one year of community control, during which he traveled frequently to New York and his private island in the Virgin 
Islands. 
The Daily Beast has now discovered another instance in which Epstein apparently received special consideration: As a convicted sex 
offender, he is required by law to undergo an impartial psychological evaluation prior to sentencing and to receive psychiatric treatment 
during and after incarceration. This is because child molesters tend to be repeat offenders with high rates of recidivism. According to a 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029626 
source in law enforcement, however, Epstein was allowed to submit a report by his private psychologist, Dr. Stephen Alexander of Palm 
Beach, Florida, whose phone has since been disconnected with no forwarding information. 
The Daily Beast's second article provided details about Epstein's systematic abuse of underage girls at his Palm Beach mansion, where 
members of his staff allegedly recruited and paid a parade of teenagers, most of them 16 or younger, to perform daily massages that 
devolved into masturbation, groping, and sometimes full-blown sexual contact. It also revealed a monetary relationship between Epstein 
and Jean Luc Brunel, a frequent visitor to whom he gave $1 million around the same time that Brunel was starting his MC2 modeling 
agency. Some of the young girls MC2 recruited from overseas—often from Eastern Europe and South America—are known to have been 
passengers on Epstein's private jets. 
The U.S. Attorney General's Office in Florida says that it is against policy to confirm or deny the existence of an investigation. Jeffrey 
Epstein's lawyer, Jack Goldberger, says he has no knowledge of an ongoing probe, and he told The Daily Beast, "Jeffrey Epstein has fully 
complied with all state and federal requirements that arise from the prior proceedings in Palm Beach. There are no pending civil lawsuits. 
There are not and should not be any pending criminal investigations, given Mr. Epstein's complete fulfillment of all the terms of his non-
prosecution agreement with the federal government." 
Conchita Sarnoff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500 companies and has produced three current-events 
debate TV programs, The Americas Forum, From Beirut to Kabul, and a segment for The Oppenheimer Report. She is writing a book 
about child trafficking in America. 
0 
#2 bruce 
• 
• Registered User 
• 
Ix 
• Group: Members 
• Posts: 11113 
• Joined: 12-August 08 
Posted 02 August 2010 - 12:59 AM 
These slugs leave slime wherever they go.america is owned by these pigs.filthy pigs. 
0 
*********************************************************** 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
Jeffrey Epstein 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com , and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029627 
