From: Richard Kahn 
Sent: 1/23/2018 6:23:09 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fwd: Alert: The 2017 Tax Reform Act 
Importance: High 
Richard Kahn 
HBRK Associates Inc. 
575 Lexington Avenue 4th Floor 
New York, NY 10022 
tel 
fax 
cell 
TAX ALER JANUARY 23, 2018 
The 2017 Tax Reform Act - Key 
Provisions Impacting Fund Managers 
and Their Funds 
For further information about this Alert, 
please contact: 
Alex Gelinas 
Partner 
212.573.815g  
agelinas@sglawyers.com 
Steven Etkind 
Partner 
212.573.8412  
setkind@sglawyers.com 
Please feel free to discuss any aspect of 
this Alert with your regular Sadis & 
Goldberg contact or with any of the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026778 
partners whose names and contact 
information can be found at the end of 
the Alert. 
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), which was signed into law by President Trump on December 
22, 2017, contains the most sweeping federal tax law changes since 1986. Most provisions of the Tax 
Act take effect for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. This Client Alert is not intended 
to be a comprehensive review of this massive legislation. The Alert focuses on certain provisions of 
the Tax Act that may have the most significant impact on asset management firms, their owners, their 
investment vehicles, and the investors in such funds. Certain changes made by the Tax Act are 
permanent but many others are scheduled to expire after 2025 unless extended by further 
Congressional legislation. 
I. Carried Interest Survives in Modified Form 
The Tax Act contains changes to the treatment of "carried interests", but such changes are not as 
negative as the prior legislative changes that had been proposed but never adopted. The granting of a 
"future profits only" interest in a partnership in connection with the performances of services to the 
partnership continues to be eligible for tax-free treatment under the new law. For certain owners of 
"Applicable Partnership Interests" (of the sort that would generally be issued by an investment 
partnership to the general partner), the Act applies a three-year holding period requirement for capital 
gains derived by the partnership (or from the disposition of the profits interest) to be eligible for the 
long-term capital gains tax rate (instead of the generally applicable one-year holding threshold). 
The change in carried interest taxation clearly impacts managers of hedge funds more than managers 
of private equity funds or real estate funds, which typically have a longer than three-year holding period 
for investments in their portfolio companies or real estate assets. The new tax treatment applies to 
income realized in tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and existing carried interests are not 
grandfathered. Thus, it appears that any unrealized capital gains which have already been allocated to 
a general partner on the books of the partnership would be subject to the new tax treatment at the time 
the partnership realizes such gains in 2018 or subsequent years. 
Note, however, that the Tax Act does not change the current federal income tax treatment of carried 
interest allocations of "qualified dividends" to individuals, which are also taxed at long-term capital gains 
rates. The capital gains from the carried interest that fail to satisfy the new three-year holding period 
requirement are treated as "short-term capital gains" which are taxable at ordinary income rates. 
The "Applicable Partnership Interest" held by the general partner or an affiliate should not include any 
portion of the partnership interest that is attributable to capital contributed to the partnership by the 
general partner. The exact manner on how such exception will apply will need to be addressed in future 
IRS notices or regulations to be issued. Limited partners holding capital interests in private investment 
funds are also not affected and therefore retain the one-year holding period requirement for long-term 
capital gain treatment. 
Note also that the term "Applicable Partnership Interest" does not include an interest held directly or 
indirectly by a corporation and it currently appears that such exception includes holdings by both C 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026779 
corporations and S corporations. It is likely that further guidance will be issued on this question, as it 
may be advantageous for certain general partners to convert their existing entities that hold the carried 
interest to S corporations, and such general partners may have until March 15, 2018 to accomplish such 
conversion. 
Managers of hedge funds and other partnerships that do not hold capital assets for more than three 
years before their sale may consider whether the carried interest incentive allocation should be replaced 
with an incentive fee structure. Also, the reduced after-tax value of a carried interest partnership 
allocation may impact the management company's executive compensation arrangements. 
Although an earlier version of the tax legislation would have repealed the exemption in the Code which 
provides that a limited partner's income is exempt from self-employment tax, the final version of the 
Tax Act does not contain such change in law. 
II. New 21% Corporate Income Tax Rate and Reduction of the Maximum Rates Applicable to 
Individuals 
The Tax Act reduces the 35 percent corporate rate to a flat 21 percent corporate rate. There is no special 
higher rate for personal service corporations (as existed under prior law). The new 21 percent rate is 
effective for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The corporate alternative tax (AMT) 
has also been repealed. Such corporate tax changes are permanent. In contrast, the highest applicable 
federal income tax rate for individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers is reduced from 39.6% to 
37%. In addition, the 3.8% "add-on" Medicare contributions tax on an individual's net investment 
income remains in effect. 
1. Possible Use of a "C" Corporation as a Tax Shelter 
Since the new 21% corporate tax rate is now well below the highest rate applicable to high income 
individuals, some investment managers may conclude that some or all of their management entities 
that are pass through partnerships should convert to corporate form. In addition, certain partnership 
funds that are engaged in trade or business, such as active loan origination or real estate activities may 
find it advantageous to convert to corporate form. 
The advantage to the corporate form of organization is that the C corporation's net income after taxes 
is not taxable to its shareholders until it is distributed (e.g., either as a dividend or as a redemption of 
stock (i.e., as a capital gain)). Corporations that are engaged in active businesses are able to retain and 
reinvest their earnings. Also relevant to choice of entity decisions is the fact that the Tax Act restricts 
the ability of individuals to deduct more than $10,000 in state and local taxes, but corporations can 
continue to deduct such taxes as under prior law. 
However, there are certain anti-abuse provisions that remain in the Internal Revenue Code that limit 
the use of a C corporation as a tax shelter. Lurking in the Code is a provision which allows the Internal 
Revenue Service to impose a 20 percent additional "accumulated earnings" income tax on the 
"accumulated taxable income" of a corporation if such taxable income is allowed to accumulate "beyond 
the "reasonable needs of the business". There is a $250,000 safe harbor for most corporations, while 
personal service corporations are allowed a safe harbor of only $150,000. There is also a 20 percent tax 
on the "personal holding company income" (i.e., passive investment income) of certain closely held C 
corporations (i.e., when five or fewer individuals own, in the aggregate, more than fifty percent of the 
corporation's stock and at least 60 percent of the corporation's adjusted ordinary income is personal 
holding company income (e.g., passive investment income)). These penalty taxes on corporations have 
received little attention in recent decades. However, with the enactment of the sharply lower corporate 
tax rate, these anti-abuse rules are likely to become a significant focus of the IRS in its audits of tax 
returns of privately held corporations. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026780 
2. The New Deduction for Qualified Business Income of Pass Through Entities 
Congress also wanted to provide an income tax rate reduction for those businesses that are organized 
as partnerships or S corporations or which are owned by sole proprietors. In order to meet this goal, the 
Tax Act provides an income tax deduction for individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers equal to (i) 
20 percent of their domestic "qualified business income"; plus (ii) 20 percent of any qualifying dividends 
from real estate investment trusts, qualifying income from publicly traded partnerships, and gain 
derived from sale of such publicly traded partnerships that would be treated as ordinary 
income. Therefore, such deduction results in an effective federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such 
qualifying income for a top bracket individual. The deduction does not apply to investment income (i.e., 
capital gains, dividends (other than certain ordinary income dividends paid by REITs), and most interest 
income). In addition, it does not apply to reasonable compensation income and guaranteed payments 
paid to the taxpayer from the business. 
The 20 percent of "qualified business income" deduction described in (i) above is also generally limited 
to the greater of either (a) 50% of the W-2 wages paid with respect to the qualified trade or business, 
or (b) the sum of 25% of the W-2 wages paid with respect to such business plus 2.5% of the unadjusted 
tax basis of all qualified business property of such business. Thus, if the partnership, S corporation or 
sole proprietorship does not pay "W-2 wages" and the second limitation is a minor amount or not 
applicable, the owner or pass through taxpayer's tax deduction would be a minor amount or zero. 
Unfortunately, partners or owners of certain types of professional service businesses, including 
financial services providers, investment managers, brokers, consultants, lawyers and accountants (and 
others), are not permitted to claim the "qualified business income" deduction unless the taxpayer's 
adjusted gross income is below certain levels ($207,500 for individuals and $365,000 for married couples 
filing jointly). Even in such case, the benefit of the available deduction is phased out ratably as the 
taxpayer's income exceeds $157,500 if single, or $315,000 if filing a joint tax return. Therefore, fund 
managers organized as pass through entities are not likely to, and investment funds organized as 
partnerships will not, derive a significant benefit from this deduction. 
ISSUES FOR PARTNERSHIP FUNDS 
1. Repeal of Itemized Deductions Previously Available to Non-Corporate Taxpayers for Non-Business 
Investment Expenses 
For 2018 through 2025, the Tax Act completely repeals the deductions previously allowed to individuals 
and other non-corporate taxpayers for "miscellaneous itemized deductions" (which were subject to a 
2% floor and a phase-out rule under prior law). It is important to note that for individual investors in 
partnership funds that are not treated as engaged in a trade or business, the investor's share of the 
fund's investment expenses, including management fees, would now pass through as non-deductible 
miscellaneous itemized deductions. If the fund is properly classified as an active "trader" rather than a 
mere investor, then such expenses would be completely deductible as trade or business expenses. This 
Tax Act change obviously puts considerable strain on the fund manager and its tax advisors with respect 
to the trader vs. investor issue. At this time, there is a lack of clear guidance from the Internal Revenue 
Service on what level of trading activity is sufficient for a professionally managed fund to qualify as a 
"trader fund". 
In cases where a partnership fund's expected activities are not likely to qualify for trader status or 
another trade or business, the fund's sponsor may find that US high net worth individuals may now 
prefer to invest in the offshore corporate feeder fund instead of the onshore partnership fund. The US 
income tax reason for this would be that since the offshore feeder is classified as a corporation for US 
tax purposes, its net income would be calculated under the rules applicable to corporations, for which 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026781 
there are no miscellaneous itemized deductions. Thus, assuming that the foreign feeder is a passive 
foreign investment company (PFIC), if the US high net worth shareholder is able to make the "qualified 
electing fund" election, the net income the investor would be required to report on his federal income 
tax return would be calculated after deducting all of the corporation's expenses, including management 
fees and investment expenses. 
2. Non-US Partner's Gain on Sale of Partnership Interest may be Taxable as US Trade or Business 
Income; New Withholding Requirements apply to the Purchaser or the Fund 
The Tax Act specifically provides that gains realized by a non-US partner on a sale or exchange of a 
partnership interest will be treated as effectively connected US trade or business income ("Ed") to the 
extent that such partner would have been allocated [Cl had the partnership sold all of its assets. This 
provision is consistent with the IRS position in Revenue Ruling 91-32, and overrules a recent Tax Court 
case which had rejected the position taken in such IRS Ruling and instead held that since a partnership 
interest is treated as a capital asset, the foreign person's gain on its sale could escape US income taxation 
as a non-business capital gain. 
To the extent that a partnership has any [Cl-generating assets (including US real property interests), a 
seller of a partnership interest will have to provide a certificate that it is not a foreign person, and in the 
absence of such a certificate a purchaser (which could include the fund) will be required to withhold 
10% of the gross purchase price. Further, the Tax Act provides that if the purchaser does not withhold, 
the partnership is required to withhold on distributions to such purchaser to cover the withholding. The 
Tax Act provides that the new withholding obligation for purchasers is effective for sales or other 
dispositions of partnership interests after December 31, 2017. 
3. New Limitation on Deduction of Net Interest Expense 
Under prior law, subject to some restrictions and limitations, business interest paid or accrued by a 
business was fully deductible. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, the Tax Act limits 
the deduction for "net business interest" expense for every type of business, regardless of entity form, 
to 30 percent of adjusted taxable income. Business interest paid or accrued after the effective date on 
indebtedness, including debt that was incurred prior to the effective date of the Tax Act, is subject to 
this limitation. 
The term business interest does not include investment interest described in Code section 
163(d). Operating companies, such as management entities, and investment funds that are engaged in 
a business and have outstanding indebtedness could be subject to such deduction limitation. For this 
purpose, "adjusted taxable income" is determined at the entity level for partnerships, and is similar to 
EBITDA (i.e., net earnings before deducting interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization) for 
taxable years 2018 through 2021. A more restrictive 20% of [BIT limitation (net earnings before 
deducting interest expense and taxes) applies for 2022 and later years. 
Certain taxpayers are exempted for the new interest deductibility limitation, including small businesses 
with average annual gross receipts of $25 million or less for the three prior taxable years, as well as real 
estate businesses that elect out of such limitation. The Conference Committee Report on the Tax Act 
clarified that interest paid on shareholder loans by a blocker corporation is "business interest" that is 
subject to this new limitation. Blocker corporations for a lending business would have business interest 
income, which reduces the effect of this new limitation on net business interest expense (i.e., deductible 
business interest expense in excess of business interest income). 
4. Deemed Repatriation Tax 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026782 
One of the major tax raising provisions in the Tax Act is a one-time tax imposed on the accumulated 
earnings held in foreign subsidiaries of US companies. This provision is broader that it may first 
appear. Under the Tax Act, any 10% US shareholder of a foreign corporation (determined on December 
31, 2017) will be required to include in income, for the taxable year 2017, its proportionate share of the 
foreign corporation's undistributed earnings, if the foreign corporation is either a controlled foreign 
corporation (CFC) or has at least one 10% US shareholder that is a corporation. 
This law change could generate significant phantom income with respect to 10%-or-greater owned 
foreign portfolio companies both (i) for US taxable investors (including the general partner and its 
owners) in partnership funds organized in the United States and/or for US sponsors of non-US 
funds. The Tax Act provides for reduced tax rates on such income for corporate investors of 8% (for 
earnings invested in tangible business assets) and 15.5% (for cash and cash equivalents), and 9.05% and 
17.54% for investors taxed as individuals. 
5. Tax-Free Section 1031 Like Kind Exchanges Eliminated Except for Real Property Transactions 
The Tax Act eliminates the ability to qualify for tax-free exchange treatment under Code section 1031 if 
the property being exchanged is personal property. Consequently, for transactions occurring after 
December 31, 2017, exchanges of artwork, equipment, vehicles or other personal property held for 
investment or for use in a business, including Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies, for like kind property 
will not eligible for Section 1031 tax treatment. Exchanges of real property continue to be eligible for 
Section 1031 exchange treatment. 
6. Certain Tax Accounting Rules Have Been Revised 
Under prior law, net operating losses (NOLs) could be carried back two years and carried forward for 
twenty years. Under the Tax Act, NOLs arising in tax years ending after December 31, 2017 generally 
cannot be carried back, but can be carried forward indefinitely. However, only 80% of a company's 
taxable income is permitted to be offset by NOLs. The remainder of the unused NOLs will carry forward. 
The Tax Act also expands the category of corporations and partnerships that are eligible to use the cash 
method of accounting. Certain businesses may derive a tax benefit by switching from the accrual 
method to the cash method of accounting. 
7. Deferred Compensation 
The Tax Act generally leaves the current tax rules for deferred compensation intact. However, the Act 
also includes a new deferral provision for certain types of broad-based employee equity, which may 
apply to certain private companies. 
8. Estate and Gift Tax Changes 
In 2017, an individual could give or transfer at death up to $5,490,000 without paying gift or estate taxes. 
The Tax Act doubles the federal estate and gift tax unified exemption amount for estates of decedents 
dying and gifts made after December 31, 2017, and inflation adjustments will continue to 
apply. Therefore, in 2018, an individual has approximately an $11.2 million exemption, and a married 
couple has approximately $22.4 million of available shelter from federal gift and estate taxation. Note 
that the large exemption which applies to gifts may be useful in federal income tax planning. For 
example, large lifetime gifts of appreciated securities, artwork and other personal property (including 
possibly, a carried interest) to relatives who are in lower income tax brackets, or who reside in states 
with lower, or no state income taxes could save the family substantial federal income and/or state 
income taxes when such property is sold by the recipient of the gift. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026783 
Sadis & Goldberg LLP 
Please feel free to discuss any aspect of this Alert with your regular Sadis & Goldberg contact 
whose names and contact information are provided below. 
Alex Gelinas, 212.573.8159, agelinas@sglawyers.com  
Daniel G. Viola, 212.573.8038, dviola@sglawyers.com  
Danielle Epstein-Day, 212.573.8416, depstein@sglawyers.com  
Douglas Hirsch, 212.573.6670, dhirsch@sglawyers.com  
Erika Winkler, 212.573.8022, ewinkler@sglawyers.com  
Greg Hartmann, 212.573.8030, ghartmann@sglawyers.com  
Jeffrey Goldberg, 212.573.6666, igoldberg@sglawyers.com  
Jennifer Rossan, 212.573.8783, kossan@sglawyers.com  
Mitchell Taras, 212.5738417, mtaras@sglawyers.com  
Paul Fasciano, 212.573.8025, pfasciano@sglawyers.com  
Paul Marino, 212.573.8158, pmarino@sglawyers.com  
Richard L. Shamos, 212.573.8027, rshamos@sglawyers.com  
Robert Cromwell, 212.573.8034,  rcromwell@sglawyers.com  
Ron S. Geffner, 212.573.6660, rgeffner@sglawyers.com  
Sam Lieberman, 212.573.8164, slieberman@sglawyers.com  
Steven Etkind, 212.573.8412, setkind@sglawyers.com  
Steven Nuttier, 212.573.8424, shuttler@sglawyers.com  
Yehuda Braunstein, 212.573.8029, ybraunstein@sglawyers.com  
Yelena Maltser, 212.573.8429, ymaltser@sglawyers.com  
If you would like copies of our other Alerts, please visit our website at www.sglawyers.com and 
choose "Library." 
The information contained herein was prepared by Sadis & Goldberg LLP for general 
informational purposes for clients and friends of Sadis & Goldberg LLP. Its contents should not 
be construed as legal advice, and readers should not act upon the information in this Alert 
without consulting counsel. This information is presented without any representation or warranty 
as to its accuracy, completeness or timeliness. Transmission or receipt of this information does 
not create an attorney-client relationship with Sadis & Goldberg LLP. Electronic mail or other 
communications with Sadis & Goldberg LLP cannot be guaranteed to be confidential and will 
not create an attorney-client relationship with Sadis & Goldberg LLP. 
Sadis & Goldberg LLP 551 Fifth Avenue, 21st Floor New York, NY 10176 212.Q47.3793 
Copyright (c) 2018 Sadis & Goldberg LLP 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026784 
Sadis & Goldberg LLP, 551 Fifth Avenue 21st Floor. New York NY 10176 
SafeUnsubscribeTM richarddavidkahn@gmail.com  
Forward this email I Update Profile I About our service provider 
Sent by sgalert@sglawyers.com  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026785 
