From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Attachments: 
Robert Kuhn 
8/19/2018 3:53:57 AM 
jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Kuhn - Radical Breakthroughs 
CNN - Kuhn - US-China Tariffs, Trade War - CNN Today - 8.2.2018.pdf; Untitled attachment 200384.htm 
Importance: High 
Jeffrey: 
How's all in our crazy world? 
I'm in NY until August 31 (then again, after Beijing, Sept. 25 — Oct. 14). If you are in town, meet? 
When convenient, I'd like you to meet Peter Getzels, Closer To Truth producer/director (I've worked with Peter 
for 12 years); he would very much like to meet you in person, describe the Radical Breakthroughs process in 
detail, get your feedback. He would come up from DC. We can always do Skype, of course, but Peter would 
appreciate to meet in person early in the process. Breakthroughs is a Big Project, big opportunity for impact. 
All are truly excited. 
Below are highlights of Breakthroughs progress. 
Attached is latest CNN on trade war and below are links (caution: a few weeks old is ancient history in Trump 
time). 
The US trade war against China: The view from Beijing 
https://news.cgtn.com/news/3d3d514f3551544f78457a6333566d54/share p.html 
How should China handle the trade war? 
https://news.cgtn.com/news/3d3d774d3449544d79457a6333566d54/share_p.html 
Love to discuss stuff 
Robert 
Radical Breakthrough Development Work 
• Research on each of the 13 episodes is ongoing and we are moving towards creating a short list of the top 
contributors per episode (with some contributors in multiple episodes). 
• We are aggregating the top contributors around 4 to 5 central locations, such as SF Bay Area, LA, Chicago, 
Boston, New York, Santa Fe, London, Oxford, and Cambridge for the main shoots. 
• We are creating a short list of locations for the secondary shoot - i.e. the more observational shoots on specific 
labs and research facilities, such as the Music Lab at McGill, the Sleep Lab at Harvard. 
• We are planning a recce in the autumn to assess locations and meet some of the key contributors. 
• We've brought on a production manager / line producer as we develop detailed research, contributors, 
locations, budgets. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029174 
• Our team is working toward interviewing and hiring a top science-literate associate producer / dedicated 
research producer. We've been coordinating with colleagues at HHMI (Howard Hughes Medical Association) 
as well as National Geographic for staffing referrals, and now have a strong short list. This is a critical, long-
term position. 
• We are assessing graphics and animation companies and researching styles and graphic ideas that we might 
use to communicate some of the more complex ideas. 
• Our digital team is researching a web extension for the www.closertotruth.com website, developing ideas for a 
dedicated site neighborhood for "Radical Breakthroughs." We are in discussions with several website 
design companies, including the company that designed and built our original CTT site, for ideas and bids on 
creating the expanded site. 
• By mid-October, we expect to begin to schedule the shoots. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029175 
