NOBEL CHARITABLE TRUST
”Thinking About the Environment and Technology”
* Unauthorized use of information, postings and distributions are strictly prohibited. For information, please contact the Nobel Charitable Trust at info@nobelcharitabletrust.org
The Nobel Charitable Trust 1
Vision
”We envisage a world in which alternative, renewable and sustainable energy sources will be freely accessible to all members of
society. A world in which solutions have been found and successfully implemented to meet the present and future needs whilst
avoiding environmental threats.
Mission
”Nobel Charitable Trust seek to encourage and push forward the development and use of products, procedures, research and
initiative within the domain of renewable and sustainable energy in order to fulfil our vision and to create general awareness of
this matter”
Nobel Charitable Trust Scholarship
The scholarship shall be awarded at every award ceremony to the person or persons who, have shown the most inventive and
effective development or discoveries within the fields of alternative, renewable and or sustainable energy.
Candidates are most likely to be found amongst young researchers and inventors from all over the world. Companies,
organisations, politicians and others could also be candidates so long as they fulfil the criteria above and, of course, that their
efforts are available for the benefit of all mankind.
A scholarship committee with seven members will make the selection for the winner of the scholarship. The members will be
national and international experts on sustainability
Persons eligible to receive the NCT Scholarship will be limited to selected young researchers.
The scholarship will be awarded at every award ceremony , with the first award to be granted in 2012 (tentative)
The winner will receive, in addition to the recognition and honour bestowed by the scholarship, a cash prize .
1
Nobel Charitable Trust 2
Purpose of Efforts
◆Contributing to the stable preservation of our planet and the development of our environment through sustainable energy resources by providing
grants to efforts in the fields of natural conservation, natural resources and energy, education, culture and other relevant areas.
◆Support activities to improve children’s environments and education conditions and provide learning experiences around the world as children
will bear the future of energy.
Description of Activities
Engage in activities such as disclosing information on environmental improvement, formation of a fund division, obtaining support from researchers in the
field of environmental improvement, providing grants to corporations, organizing environment forums and expos etc.
Promote exchange of information by networking with charity organizations.
Seek and review support members amongst organizations and corporations, and work to expand networks and disclose information relating to
environmental improvement mainly throughout East Asia.
Establishing Certificates of Merits and NCT Awards for Fields in Environmental Technology,
Contribution to Society, Environmental Design, Renewable/Alternative/Sustainable Energy
With recommendations from a qualified committee, various awards will be granted to individuals and/or organizations who have attained the best
achievements or most practical inventions in the above fields. (Selection from 4 Categories – Politician, Researcher, Artists, Corporations)
◆Awards shall be granted at every selection ceremony. A medal/certificate /scholarship will be awarded in accordance with the various awards.
◆Individuals Candidates will be selected from around the world – Scientist who have made a contribution through sciences, politicians who have made a
contribution through policies, artists who have made a contribution through the arts.
◆Organizations: Candidates will be selected from around the world - When an organizations or corporation that have made a contribution through their
products has been selected, such invention (product) shall be granted with the NCT accreditation mark..
◆NCT is a non-profit organization and has no connection to any political organization, corporations or government agencies.
Grants
1. Grants to researches and projects relating to water, natural resources and energy
2. Grants to researches in natural conservation, education, culture and other relevant areas.
3. Grants to projects that educate the younger generation on environmental, educational and
cultural issues.
4. Grants to researches and projects in the above fields conducted in foreign countries,
especially in developing countries.
5. Other projects necessary for NCT to fulfill its objectives.
Services to Members
● Distribution of The “Nobel Family”, a monthly web mail service.
● Providing consulting, information and education on technologies for environmental
improvement
● Information on seminars and other events hosted by NCT
2
The Nobel Charitable Trust 3
NCT’s Board Members (The Nobel Family Society)
The Nobel Family Society is a private society of which only the descendants of Immanuel
Nobel, father of Robert, Ludvig and Alfred Nobel, are eligible as members. The 4 Nobels of
the Nobel Family Society below are NCT’s founders and board members.
Nobel Family Society Members
Michael Nobel Born in 1940
Chairman of NCT Asia, Former
Chairman of NCT Switzerland
2007-2009/former Chairman of the
Board of Directors of the Nobel
Family Society /former Chairman
of the Appeal of the Peace Prize
Laureates Foundation. Michael
obtained his PH D. in pyschopedagogy
from the University of
Lausanne. He is knowledgeable in
the fields of economics and
environmentology, has deep ties
with Japanese Universities and
has been honored with many
awards.
Gustaf Nobel Born in1950
Appointed Chairman of NCT in
Switzerland in Jan.2009.. After
studies at University of Lund,
Sweden, in marketing and
economics he started his career as
an international businessman
working in more than 15 countries
all over the world. Over the last 8
years he has become very much
involved in environmental projects
and renewable energy solutions,
as well as recycling of refuse, and
is an authority in the field.
Peter Nobel Born in 1953
Trustee of NCT in Switzerland.
Peter is a graduate with MSc in
Material Science and Engineering
from The Royal Institute in
Stockholm. Peter is a well-known
businessman and entrepreneur. A
major part of his experience relates
to energy associating product
programs, product and technology
development activities targeting
environmental concerned segments.
Peter works extensively with
supporting clean technologies for
environmental improvements and
energy saving programs.
Philip Nobel Born in 1970
Trustee of NCT in Switzerland.
In Switzerland Philip studied
marketing and economics. He
then moved to the Bahamas in
2006 and is currently actively
involved in environmental issues
all throughout the Caribbean
islands; he’s an active member of
the Bahamas National Trust as
well as the Nature Conservancygroup
whose aims are to preserve
and to improve the natural
environment of the islands and its
surrounding waters.
3
Nobel Charitable Trust 4
Membership Structure
Preparatory Committee NCT Organization Phase 1
Founders Honorary Directors
Board of Directors
20
10
Representatives of the Founders: Board of Advisory 10
Michael Nobel
Board of Trustees 10
Mom Luang Rajadarasri Jayankura Office Staff 6
Members
Regular Members 80 members 1 year Membership based on recommendations and donations
Support Members Corporate 1 year Annual membership fee
Individuals 1 year Annual membership fee
Honorary Members 20 members Membership based on recommendations from regular members
Support Members will be corporations, organizations, municipalities and public entities that support NCT’s objectives and activities.
Corporate Membership will be based on business units, where HQ, branch offices and factories all acquire separate membership.
Board Members
●Michael Nobel, a member of the Nobel Family Society, shall be NCT’s chairperson.
●Candidates for board members include Prince Charles, the 45 th Vice President of the United States, Al Gore, Hubert Hermes, Crown Prince Abdulla of Saudi
Arabia, Prince Ruport Lowenstein, the 42 nd President of the United States, Bill Clinton, and other prominent figures who can address the quintessence of
environmental issues.
(Photos below:★ are confirmed, ●are candidates)
Candidates for Board Members
佐々木正シャープ前社長
● Sim Farar
ソフトバンク顧問
野口健藤原紀香倉本聰毛利衛桜井和寿イルカ
★ Jenie Kang
Director WM Welfare
Foundation ISF of YPO
International Member
★ HRH Prince
Faisal bin Turki
Al-Faisal
Founder of
GSSI
★ Mom Luang
Rajadarasri Jayankura
Great Great
Granddaughter of His
Majesty, King Rama IV
of Thailand
54th U.S.
Representative to the
United Nations underthe
Clinton Administration
※Pictures are all images
●Nancy Davis Rickel
Chairman of Nancy Davis
Foundation
4
4
