ning boon. pnuIC GJUILC-LaA UcILLIGS -leUre - mama watcn 
nap:// of ogs.maricetwaten.comiencoreizu I .5/V4/29/coming-soon... 
ar 
Is Another Bear Market Around the Corner? 
If you have a $500,000 portfolios you should download the latest report by Forbes columnist 
Ken Fisher's firm. It tells you where we think the stock market is headed and why. This 
must-read report includes our latest stock market forecast, plus research and analysis you can 
use in your portfolio right now. t Click Hare to Download  
FISliEft INVES1MPN 
Market Watch 
April 29, 2013, 12:09 PM ET 
Coming soon: More estate-tax battles 
The word "permanent" — at least in the corridors of Washington, D.C. — doesn't mean what you think it 
means. And that should prompt you to keep a close eye on your estate plans. 
More inheritance headaches loom. 
The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which was 
signed into law in early January, established a 
"permanent" $5 million estate-tax exemption. The 
legislation also set the same $5 million exemption for the 
federal gift tax and generation-skipping transfer tax. 
(That figure is indexed for inflation, which makes the 
2013 exemption $5.25 million.) 
But as Kelly Greene reported this weekend in the Walt 
Street Journal, President Barack Obama's fiscal year 
2014 budget calls for lowering the exclusion for estate taxes and the generation-skipping transfer tax to 
$3.5 million (albeit not until 2018). The gift-tax exemption, meanwhile, would drop to $1 million. The 
proposed figures would be a return to 2009 levels and would no longer be indexed for inflation. 
According to the proposed budget, the changes — coupled with closing other "estate-tax loopholes" — 
would raise $79 billion over 10 years. Which means that the only permanent thing about estate planning 
would be efforts by financial advisers and tax attorneys to stay one step ahead of Washington's search 
for revenue. 
To be sure, the president's proposals are unlikely to be enacted in their current form. But Greene 
highlights several possible changes that investors and families should watch for: 
"Discounts" could disappear. Currently, the value of a minority share in a business — when transferred 
from one family member to another — can be "discounted," resulting in a tidy tax savings. The White 
House, in previous budgets, has called for limiting or eliminating such discounts to family members. But 
the absence of that idea in the budget for 2014 could mean the Obama administration believes the 
Treasury Department already has the authority to change the rules — and simply will issue new 
regulations to do so. If that's the case, families considering such transfers might want to act sooner 
rather than later. 
GRATs could get watered down. A grantor-retained annuity trust, or GRAT, lets a person give a portion 
of an asset's future profits to heirs tax-free. (One popular use of GRATs: Passing along stocks whose 
prices are depressed.) Such transfers take place over a set time period — as short as two years. But the 
president's budget would require GRATs to have a minimum term of 10 years, making these trusts less 
1 of 2 4/29/13 1:26 PM 
1 iiiii 6 avvu. inkJ1G cblalc-taA U1LLIS - cticore - IvntrKet Watett 
attractive. 
nttp://blogs.marketwatch.com/encore/2013/04/29/coming-soon... 
Individual retirement accounts could get emptied faster. Currently, people who inherit IRAs and 
similar tax-deferred savings accounts are able to "stretch" their withdrawals across their life expectancy. 
The budget proposal would require most beneficiaries — other than widows and widowers — to cash out 
the accounts within five years. Already, Greene notes, some older adults whose wealth is concentrated 
in IRAs are considering moving the accounts into trusts to help their families keep up with, and follow, 
the rules. 
Copyright 2013 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by 
copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit 
www.djreprints.com 
2 of 2 4/29/13 1:26 PM 
