From: Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 2/11/2013 5:45:09 PM 
To: Larry Summers_______________________ 
Subject: prep for dinner, israel pres briefing / 
The Wall Street Journal 
The Ayatollah Always Says No  
Editorial 
February 8, 2013 --The Farsi word for "no" is na h, which is easy enough 
to remember. Maybe even Joe Biden won't forget it the next time the U.S. 
tries to reach out diplomatically to Iran. 
We're speaking of the Administration's latest effort to come to terms with 
Tehran over its nuclear programs, which Mr. Biden made last weekend at 
the Munich Security Conference. The U.S. offer of direct bilateral talks, 
he said, "stands, but it must be real and tangible." Iranian foreign minister 
Ali Akbar Salehi, who was also at the conference though he refused to 
meet with U.S. officials, called Mr. Biden's comments "a step forward." 
Mr. Salehi's remark set the usual hearts aflutter that Iran is finally serious 
about a deal. But the optimism was brief On Thursday, Iran's Supreme 
Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei flatly rejected direct talks with the U.S. 
"The U.S. is pointing a gun at Iran and wants us to talk to them," he said. 
"Direct talks will not solve any problems." 
This isn't the first time Mr. Khamenei has played chaste Daphne to 
President Obama's infatuated Apollo. Just after becoming President in 
2009, Mr. Obama sent the Ayatollah two private letters and delivered a 
conciliatory speech for the Persian new year of Nowruz. Mr. Khamenei's 
answer: "They chant the slogan of change but no change is seen in 
practice." He told a crowd chanting "death to America" that "if a hand is 
stretched covered with a velvet glove but it is cast iron inside, that makes 
no sense." 
That was in March 2009. In October of that year the U.S. and its allies 
tentatively worked out a deal with Iranian negotiators to move some of 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028728 
their enriched uranium outside Iran. Western analysts were confident that 
Mr. Khamenei would give his blessing, given the international pressure he 
was said to be under following the fraudulent elections and the bloody 
crackdown that followed. 
The Ayatollah quashed that deal too: "Whenever they [Americans] smile 
at the officials of the Islamic revolution, when we carefully look at the 
situation, we notice that they are hiding a dagger behind their back." 
It was the same in January 2011, when diplomacy also collapsed. Ditto in 
2012, when negotiations in February, May and June each ended in failure. 
Washington went into those talks thinking they were going to succeed on 
the theory that Tehran desperately wants relief from the supposedly 
crippling pressure of economic sanctions. 
Why does the Ayatollah keep saying no? The conventional wisdom is that 
previous U.S. offers weren't generous enough, or that the wrong President 
was in the White House, or that Iran wants only to deal directly with the 
U.S. and not in multilateral forums. Each of these theories has been tested 
and shown to be false. 
A more persuasive explanation—get ready for this shocker—is that Iran 
really wants a bomb. The regime believes, not unreasonably, that 
Moammar Gadhafi would still be in power had he not given up his nuclear 
program in 2003. Mr. Khamenei also fears a "velvet revolution" scenario, 
in which more normal ties with the West threaten the ideological 
foundations of the Islamic Republic. Confrontation with America is in this 
regime's DNA. 
Meantime, the pretense of negotiations has allowed Tehran to play for 
time to advance its programs. When Mr. Obama took office, Iran had 
enriched 1,000 kilos of reactor-grade uranium. In its last report from 
November, U.N. inspectors found that Iran has produced 7,611 kilos to 
reactor grade, along with 232 kilos of uranium enriched to 20%, which is 
close to bomb-grade. Last month, Iran declared that it would install 3,000 
advanced centrifuges at its Natanz facility, which can enrich uranium at 
two to three times its current rate. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028729 
As for the sanctions, they may hurt ordinary Iranians but this regime is 
famously indifferent to the suffering of its own people. The Ayatollah also 
doesn't seem to take the Administration's talk about "all options being on 
the table" seriously. Mr. Obama's nomination of Iran dove Chuck Hagel to 
be Secretary of Defense reinforces that impression, as do reports that the 
White House blocked Pentagon and CIA plans to arm the opposition that's 
fighting to overthrow Iran's client regime in Damascus. An America that 
won't help proxies in a proxy war isn't likely to take the fight directly to 
Iran's nuclear facilities. 
In rejecting Mr. Biden's offer, the Ayatollah said frankly, "I'm not a 
diplomat; I'm a revolutionary." Another round of multilateral talks with 
Iran is set to resume this month, but maybe Joe Biden and his boss should 
start taking no for an answer. 
Article 2. 
Foreign Policy 
Let's face it: Obama's Iran policy is failing  
James Traub 
February 8, 2013 -- There is no better example of an Obama 
administration initiative that has succeeded on its own terms, and yet 
failed as policy, than Iran. By engaging the regime in Tehran, and being 
rebuffed, the White House has been able to enlist China, Russia, and the 
European Union in imposing tough sanctions on Iran. By steadily 
ratcheting up those sanctions, the administration has been able to 
gradually squeeze the Iranian economy. By insisting that "containment" is 
not an option, Obama has persuaded Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin 
Netanyahu that he need not launch an attack on Iran's nuclear facilities --
at least not any time soon. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028730 
Obama has done everything right, and yet his Iran policy is failing. There 
is no evidence that the sanctions will bring Iran to its knees and force the 
supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to accept the humiliation of 
abandoning his nuclear program. But neither is there any sign of new 
thinking in the White House. "I don't see how what didn't work last year is 
going to work this year," says Vali Nasr, who served in the Obama State 
Department before becoming dean of the Johns Hopkins School of 
Advanced International Studies. He might not get much of an argument 
from White House officials, who, the New York Times recently noted, 
"seem content with stalemate." 
The United States is not negotiating directly with Iran but rather doing so 
through the P5+1, which consists of the five permanent Security Council 
members and Germany. The P5+1's current position is that Iran must stop 
enriching nuclear fuel to 20 percent purity -- a point from which Iran 
could quickly move to weapons-grade material -- transfer its existing stock 
of such fuel to a third country, and shut down one of its two enrichment 
facilities, known as Fordow. In exchange, the parties will help Iran 
produce such fuel for medical purposes, which the regime claims is its 
actual goal. Iran has refused, saying it will not shut down Fordow. 
But the current state of play masks the larger issue, which is that the 
ayatollah and those around him believe the United States wants to make 
Iran cry uncle -- which happens to be true. The next round of P5+1 
negotiations, now scheduled for Feb. 25 in Kazakhstan, are almost 
certainly not going to go anywhere unless the United States signals that it 
is prepared to make what the Iranians view as meaningful and equivalent 
moves in exchange for Iranian concessions. Arms-control experts say that 
both British Prime Minister David Cameron and Catherine Ashton, head 
of foreign affairs for the European Union, favor offering Iran a reduction 
in sanctions; but there's a limit to what they can do without the United 
States. 
Of course, such flexibility would be pointless if Iran is simply hell-bent on 
gaining the capacity to produce a nuclear weapon. The signals, as always 
with Iran, are cryptic. Iranian authorities have told nuclear inspectors that 
they plan to install a new generation of centrifuges in order to accelerate 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028731 
enrichment. And yet Iran also chose to convert some of its stockpile of 
highly enriched uranium for medical use rather than approach the amount 
needed for a bomb, leading Israeli authorities to predict that Iran wouldn't 
be able to build a bomb before 2015 or 2016. Last week, Ali Akbar 
Velayati, Khamenei's foreign policy advisor, publicly criticized officials 
who have treated the negotiations dismissively. Presumably, he was 
thinking of President Mahmoud Ahmadinej ad, who has compared Iran's 
nuclear program to a train without brakes. 
Iran is now at the outset of what promises to be a raucous presidential 
election, and may be no more capable of serious negotiations between now 
and June than the United States was in 2012. But what is clear is that the 
sanctions have moderated Iranian behavior and rhetoric. At the same time, 
as the Times also noted, the economic pressure is not nearly great enough 
to compel concessions that the regime would view as a blow to national 
pride. In short, Iran might -- might -- be more willing to accept a face-
saving compromise than they were a year or two ago, but will need serious 
inducements to do so. 
What would that entail? Virtually all the proposals that have come from 
outside experts suggest that the P5+1 begin with modest confidence-
building measures, especially in the period before the election. A recent 
report by the Arms Control Association enumerates several of them. 
Western diplomats, for example, could take up Ali Akbar Salehi, Iran's 
foreign minister, on his proposal to limit the "extent" of enrichment -- i.e., 
well below 20 percent -- in exchange for fuel rods for the research reaction 
and a recognition of Iran's "right to enrich," a notional concept the United 
States already supports under specified conditions. Or Iran could suspend 
20-percent enrichment in exchange for a suspension of new sanctions. But 
Iran is unlikely to accept even such small steps unless it felt that additional 
moves would win additional explicit concessions. 
Beyond that, the outlines of what in Middle East peacemaking is known as 
"final status" are clear enough: Iran agrees to verifiable inspections to 
ensure that it does not enrich uranium beyond 3.5 percent and does not 
pursue a nuclear weapons program, while the West accepts Iran's "right to 
enrich" and dismantles sanctions. Of course, the outlines of a Middle East 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028732 
peace deal are clear enough, too. But in both cases, neither side trusts the 
other, and each demands that the other go first. Instead, nobody goes 
anywhere. 
U.S. officials have very good reason to be wary of Iran's bona fides. In 
2009, they reached a deal with Iranian negotiators to send the stockpile of 
highly enriched uranium out of the country -- only to see the ayatollah 
repudiate it. As Ray Takeyh, an Iran expert with the Council on Foreign 
Relations puts it, "Khamenei has created a politics where it's hard for him 
to compromise." But so has the United States. Anyone who watched 
Chuck Hagel's confirmation hearing knows that it is an article of faith in 
Congress -- and pretty much a bipartisan one -- that Iran is a faithless, 
illegitimate terrorist state that will be deterred from building a bomb only 
by the threat of massive attack. Had Hagel been foolish enough to suggest 
that the United States offer to reduce sanctions in exchange for Iranian 
concessions, the White House would have had to find a new candidate for 
defense secretary. 
It's the U.S. Congress that arguably holds the high cards, though the White 
House put them in its hands. The most potent sanctions are legislated, and 
have been written in such a way that they will be very hard to unwind. 
Obama can waive them for up to six months. But the ayatollah is not about 
to make irreversible decisions in exchange for six months of relief. 
The White House is thus stuck between Tehran and Capitol Hill. And it 
can't live long with the current stalemate. After all, Obama has said that 
"containment" is not an option. He is hoping that the combination of 
economic pain and fear of military action will bring Tehran to its senses. If 
it doesn't, the president has said that he is prepared to use force. Perhaps 
he feels that just as spurned engagement served as the predicate for tough 
sanctions, so would failed negotiations lay the predicate for a broadly 
supported strike against Iran's nuclear facilities. Iran left us no choice, he 
might say, as the bombers fly. 
That would constitute a diplomatic triumph ... if a strike against Iran's 
nuclear facilities is a good idea. If in fact it's a dreadful prospect -- worse, 
perhaps, even than containment -- then it would constitute a failure that 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028733 
would obliterate the record of adroit diplomacy of the last four years. 
Obama understands very well -- even if many members of Congress do 
not -- that even our worst adversaries have interests of their own, that 
those interests feel as legitimate to them as ours do to us, and that we at 
least have a chance of settling disputes with them if we can find the place 
where our interests overlap. The time has come for him to apply that 
wisdom to Iran. 
James Traub is a fellow of the Center on International Cooperation. 
Article 3. 
The National  
An uneasy courtship as Iran and Egypt test 
the waters  
Alan Philps 
Feb 8, 2013 -- There is a consensus among commentators that the visit of 
the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, to Egypt - complete with 
red carpet and kiss on both cheeks from President Mohammed Morsi - 
does not amount to a breakthrough. The view of US think-tanks is that it 
does not amount to very much at all, and certainly not worth getting 
anxious about. Such a consensus is always dangerous, and it is worth 
looking more closely at what it is based on. 
Mr Ahmadinejad is the first Iranian leader to set foot in Cairo since the 
deposed Shah of Iran was given refuge in Cairo, where he died and 
received a state funeral. The two countries have not had diplomatic 
relations since 1979. 
The Iranian president's visit has deep historical significance, even if he 
came as a guest of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference summit. 
The picture of the two presidents embracing says to the world: Egypt is 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028734 
released from the US straitjacket and is free to resume its position as a 
regional power. 
There are plenty of reasons, however, to dismiss the visit as just show. Mr 
Ahmadinejad is a lame duck, banned by the constitution from running for 
a third term in the June elections. As Iran moves into a period of war 
economy under the pressure of sanctions designed to curb its nuclear 
programme, Mr Ahmadinejad is engaged in a furious struggle to ensure 
that his rival, the parliamentary speaker, Ali Larijani, does not succeed 
him. The corruption allegations levelled by Mr Ahmadinejad against the 
Larijani family are deeply damaging to the Iranian regime. 
Mr Morsi, meanwhile, has little to show Egyptians that he has improved 
their lot. Cairo is the scene of near-constant street battles and the economy 
is tanking. Egypt's currency reserves have just sunk to $13.6 billion (Dh50 
billion), below the critical level needed to cover three months of imports. 
The country is staring bankruptcy in the face, but cannot access 
emergency funds from the International Monetary Fund without 
implementing unpopular reforms that would further raise social tensions. 
Both leaders need to show that they have "friends" abroad. The reality is a 
little different. Egypt and Iran appear to be divided by the Syria conflict, 
which is symptomatic of the wider split between the Sunni Muslim 
powers, led by Saudi Arabia, and Iran's faltering "axis of resistance" that, 
with Syria in play and Hamas having defected, now looks increasingly like 
a Shia Muslim axis. 
If we look more closely, then the story of Egypt resuming its role as a 
regional power looks premature. At this stage, Egypt is trying to find some 
space to manoeuvre between Saudi Arabia and Iran. Given that Saudi 
Arabia has the money that Egypt needs, and Washington has a lock on the 
actions of the IMF, that space is limited. 
But what does Washington think? Not very much at the moment. With 
President Barack Obama's second term team still being assembled, it is not 
surprising that there is something of a vacuum in Middle East policy. But 
the issue is deeper than that. The Obama administration has declared it 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028735 
wants to focus on the Asia-Pacific region and, surprisingly, it means what 
it says. 
Only a year after troops withdrew from Iraq, that country is not talked 
about in Washington, like an embarrassing relative. In North Africa, the 
US military has taken a back seat while the work of toppling Colonel 
Muammar Qaddafi and driving back the jihadists in Mali has been left to 
Franco-British forces. Syrian policy is one of drift, where the 
administration finds all options unpalatable. In Egypt, Washington has set 
a red line for the Muslim Brotherhood leadership: it must adhere to the 
peace treaty with Israel. Everything else is negotiable. 
This week the Pentagon revealed that it would no longer be stationing two 
aircraft carriers in the Gulf region, as it has done for most of the past two 
years, due to cuts in the defence budget, and the possibility of even more 
stringent ones if Congress fails to agree on raising the US debt ceiling. 
The Iranian nuclear programme remains a priority in Washington, but the 
carrier decision indicates a less warlike stance. One cannot say that US 
power is ebbing, but there is a clear lack of political will in Washington 
for decisive action in the Middle East. For now, the logic is that regional 
powers will have to take more responsibility. Egypt, although impotent at 
the moment, will have to find its role. The US needs to talk to Iran if there 
is ever going to be a compromise on its nuclear programme. Maybe Egypt 
could help. 
Both Egypt and Iran have denied a report that General Qassem Suleimani, 
commander of the Quds force, a division of the Iranian Islamic 
Revolutionary Guard Corps, and the man responsible for Iran's military 
operations in Syria, visited Cairo in January. There was no reaction in 
Washington to this report. 
If there is going to be a resolution of the Syrian crisis without a decade of 
Lebanon-style war, then allies of the US will have to speak to someone of 
the calibre of Gen Suleimani, a far more important figure than Mr 
Ahmadinejad. Could this lead to a historic compromise between the 
Muslim Brotherhood and the ayatollahs to create a new Islamic front 
spreading revolution? 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028736 
That is out of the question. Egypt is too reliant on foreign finance, which 
Iran cannot offer at the moment, for it to swing into Tehran's orbit. And 
there is far too much domestic opposition. 
What is clear is that while the US is reluctant to take direct responsibility, 
other countries must find ways of resolving the regional contradictions 
that have become unmanageable in the era of American tutelage. That will 
lead to some unlikely meetings taking place. The Morsi-Ahmadinejad 
embrace may not be a breakthrough, but it does show one thing: what was 
unthinkable a few years ago may one day be the norm. 
Article 4. 
Al-Monitor 
llamas Weighs Options For Recognizing Israel 
Adnan Abu Amer 
February 8 -- Recently, a lot has been said — and a lot of denials have 
been issued — about Hamas recognizing a two-state solution. It appears 
that Hamas is still vacillating between explicitly and implicitly 
recognizing Israel. Hamas realizes that recognizing Israel would open up 
the world's doors to the movement. At the same time, Hamas knows that 
such a move would be seen as a betrayal by the movement's supporters, 
both inside and outside Palestine. As Hamas well knows, its legitimacy 
derives from its vocal support for armed struggle within the complicated 
Palestinian reality. Hamas also knows that it will pay a heavy price if it is 
seen to be agreeing to international conditions. The cost will not only be 
political, but also ideological. Hamas has spent many years talking and 
writing about its notion of the state, its identity, borders, concept, 
constitution and the role of Islam within it. Generations of Hamas 
members were raised on those ideas. But those ideas have remained part 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028737 
of the imagination and heritage, and of the nostalgic dream of restoring the 
Islamic caliphate. 
The concept of the state 
Today's debate within Hamas over the concept of the state is more 
concrete than theoretical. The political conditions in the Palestinian 
territories do not allow for dreaming about unrealistic grand theories being 
promoted by some Islamist movements. Hamas is facing real-world 
problems that require real-world solutions. The Palestinian state being 
envisioned by Palestinian, Arab, and world politicians is based on the June 
1967 borders. But does that fit Hamas's political vision and intellectual 
orientation? Generations of Islamists have been raised on the concept of 
the "Islamic state," which is synonymous with the Islamic caliphate. But 
Hamas's situation is a little different. Israel's occupation of all Palestinian 
territories is a political and concrete obstacle to the dream of an Islamic 
state and it forces the consideration of more realistic options. So we have 
started hearing, from Hamas, statements about establishing a Palestinian 
state on the June 1967 borders. There is no doubt that this development is 
an intellectual and political shift by Hamas. More than 20 years ago, 
Hamas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin proposed a long truce with Israel. 
But today, such a proposal is more realistic and is attributed to Hamas's 
current leader Khaled Meshaal. Hamas in 2013 is different than Hamas in 
1993. Hamas is now an influential player and its statements and stances 
are taken into account by regional and international decision-making 
circles. 
Recognition and commitment 
The shuttle diplomacy by Western officials between Gaza, where Hamas's 
domestic leadership is located, and the Arab capitals of Doha, Cairo and 
Amman have only one objective: getting Hamas to agree to the conditions 
that would allow it to be embraced by the international community. In 
other words, they want Hamas to agree to the two-state solution. And that, 
explicitly or implicitly, essentially means that Hamas has recognized 
Israel's right to exist! Those who have been following Hamas's course 
since it was founded 25 years ago notice that every once in awhile there is 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028738 
international pressure to make Hamas agree to those conditions. But 
Hamas is afraid to fall into the same trap that others, like Fatah, have 
fallen into without getting anything in return except loss of popular 
support, as was demonstrated in the elections seven years ago. In light of 
the demands that the movement should recognize the two-state solution 
and make political commitments, some influential circles within the 
Hamas leadership think that the movement is being drawn into going 
beyond its rational political discourse and how it deals with the reality on 
the ground, and into recognizing Israel and exchanging messages with 
it. However, the siege has made the Palestinian territories miserable. So 
decision-makers in Hamas are forced to issue hints and signals that do not 
affect the movement's general principles. Those signals, however, may be 
misunderstood. And this is where the problem lies. No one thinks that 
Hamas supporters will make a big deal of those signals, but any concrete 
steps toward recognizing Israel will cost Hamas dearly, something which I 
don't think Hamas wants during this dangerous phase. At the external 
level, Hamas's enemies and opponents may think that the siege has finally 
paid off, albeit a little late, and that Hamas's current declarations are 
signals that, if the siege and the Palestinian suffering continue, the 
movement may explicitly recognize Israel, which would open the 
"appetite" of Hamas' opponents for more breakthroughs in its ideology 
and principles. 
Not an existential conflict, but a border dispute. 
Although Hamas is aware of all that, it should be noted that in a few 
months it is facing elections during which the movement's signals that it 
may accept a two-state solution will be used in a fierce anti-Hamas 
campaign. Even though the movement has provided a different 
administrative performance than before, the fundamental change in the 
movement's political program may be a decisive factor for the Palestinian 
voters. As Hamas is being smothered, with a few breaches here and there, 
the demands that it should recognize Israel are ongoing and without letup. 
In other words, Hamas must choose between recognizing Israel to stay in 
power, or losing what it has achieved democratically as punishment for 
having to refused to bow to the world's conditions. In reality, the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028739 
international community has not significantly changed its relationship with 
the Palestinians, including Hamas, over the past months and years. There 
has only been some cosmetic and tactical changes. Washington, the 
European Union and the UN have not only signaled to Hamas that it 
should join the "broken and paralyzed" peace process, they have also 
insisted that the Palestinians explicitly recognize Israel. But this time, 
those powers are armed with an "Islamic religious cloak," which would 
make a recognition of Israel more meaningful, especially since Hamas 
considers its conflict with Israel to be an ideological "existential conflict, 
not a border dispute." That pressure is accompanied with a financial and 
economic blockade, which is increasing the pressure on Hamas, especially 
since those carrying out the blockade are blocking anything that would 
alleviate Palestinian suffering. It is clear that they want to punish the 
Palestinians for electing Hamas and warn them against reelecting them; 
that is if the reconciliation succeeds and the elections happen on time. It 
should be noted that certain Israeli and Western research institutions have 
estimated the timeframe that Hamas will need to explicitly recognize 
Israel. They may accept from Hamas certain rhetorical signals for a while 
before the movement officially recognizes Israel. Since Hamas was 
founded in late 1987, it has been conducting an ideological and political 
campaign for its members and supporters against recognizing Israel. 
Hamas' constitution says that Israel is a "cancer that must be eradicated," 
and that "its demise is a Quranic inevitability." Those and other slogans 
have been a key component of Hamas's political discourse. It is therefore 
not easy for Hamas to change overnight due to political realism and 
suddenly tell its supporters: We shall recognize Israel, but it's under 
duress! 
Adnan Abu Amer is Dean of the Faculty of Arts, and a lecturer in the 
history of the Palestinian issue, national security, political science and 
Islamic civilization at Al Ummah University Open Education. 
Article 6. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028740 
NYT 
An Assassination in Tunisia  
Editorial 
February 8, 2013 -- Tunisia is where the Arab Spring began just over two 
years ago. Until now it has set an encouraging example of progress toward 
democracy and pluralism. Free elections brought to power a coalition 
government pledged to pragmatic cooperation between a moderate-led 
Islamist party, Ennanda, and smaller, secular coalition partners. 
Progress has not always been smooth. But just as Tunisians inspired 
people in neighboring countries like Egypt and Libya to rise up against 
their corrupt and repressive dictators, they also seemed, for many, to point 
the way toward a democratic future accommodating both religious beliefs 
and the rights of the secular under the rule of law. 
Those hopes have been severely shaken by the murder on Wednesday of 
Chokri Belaid. Mr. Belaid, a human- rights activist and one of Ennanda's 
most outspoken critics, had publicly challenged the party's failure to 
investigate or prosecute violent acts of intimidation carried out by 
shadowy gangs of religious extremists. Mr. Belaid's killers have not yet 
been identified. But suspicion now falls on those same extremist groups, 
which had issued public threats against Mr. Belaid and other prominent 
secular leaders — without any serious government response. 
Thousands gathered for Mr. Belaid's funeral on Friday amid a nationwide 
general strike called by his trade union supporters. Tensions are high. 
What is urgently needed is a credible, independent investigation of Mr. 
Belaid's murder, followed by prosecution of the killers. 
Given Ennanda's record of selectively ignoring Islamist violence, that 
investigation cannot be left to its appointees alone. A preferable 
alternative would be to reconstitute the broad-based, multiparty 
commissions that successfully oversaw Tunisia's free elections in October 
2011 and investigated the crimes of the fallen dictatorship. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028741 
Ennanda, which captured 41 percent of the vote in the elections, promised 
to cooperate with secular parties and show respect for pluralism. Instead, it 
is sending muddled messages. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Hamadi 
Jebali made a conciliatory gesture by proposing a temporary nonpolitical 
cabinet and new elections. Unfortunately, hard-line party members quickly 
repudiated him. 
Tunisia's revolution, which has overcome past crises, can overcome this 
one if Ennanda and all other Tunisian parties recommit themselves to 
nonviolence, mutual tolerance and upholding the rule of law. 
Article 7. 
The Washington Post 
Iraq's return to bloodshed 
Kimberly Kagan and Frederick W. Kagan 
February 8, 2013 -- Eighteen days of protests in Egypt in 2011 electrified 
the world. But more than twice that many days of protest in Iraq have 
gone almost unnoticed in the United States. Iraqi army troops killed five  
Sunni protesters in Fallujah on Jan. 25, after a month of anti-government 
protests in Anbar, Nineveh and Salahuddin provinces and elsewhere for 
which thousands turned out. Al-Qaeda in Iraq and Iranian-backed Shiite 
militias are re-mobilizing. Iraq teeters on the brink of renewed insurgency 
and, potentially, civil war. 
This crisis matters for America. U.S. vital interests that have been 
undermined over the past year include preventing Iraq from becoming a 
haven for al-Qaeda and destabilizing the region by becoming a security 
vacuum or a dictatorship that inflames sectarian civil war; containing 
Iranian influence in the region; and ensuring the free flow of oil to the 
global market. 
While tensions have risen over the past two years, the triggers for recent 
eruptions are clear. Prime Minister Noun al-Maliki, a Shiite, had the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028742 
bodyguards of Finance Minister Rafie al-Issawi, who is Sunni, arrested for 
alleged terrorist activities on Dec. 20 — almost exactly one year after he 
ordered the arrest of Sunni Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi's security 
detail. Hashimi fled to Turkey and is unlikely to return soon to Iraq, where 
he was sentenced to death after Maliki demanded his trial in absentia for 
murder and financing terrorism. 
The threat to Issawi, a moderate technocrat from Anbar, galvanized Iraqi 
Sunnis, who rightly saw Maliki's move as sectarian and an assault on 
government participation by Sunnis not under the prime minister's thumb. 
Three days after the arrests, demonstrations broke out in Ramadi, Fallujah 
and Samarra. Three days after that, a large protest closed the highway  
from Baghdad to Syria and Jordan. The popular resistance spread to Mosul 
on Dec. 27. 
These protests erupted during a constitutional crisis and as an expanding 
Arab-Kurd conflict has become increasingly militarized. Iraqi President 
Jalal Talabani was incapacitated by a stroke on Dec. 17 and has been out 
of the countryfor treatment. Iraq's constitution specifies a line of 
succession — but with one vice president in exile and the other a Shiite 
and obvious Maliki proxy, Iraq has been, in effect, operating without a 
president. Political processes that require presidential involvement have 
been paralyzed, including moving forward with long-standing efforts by 
Sunnis and Kurds to hold a parliamentary vote of no-confidence in Maliki. 
Talabani had been the critical link holding Baghdad and Kurdistan 
together since tensions rose following a 10-day standoff between Iraqi 
army units and Kurdish pesh merga troops in October, after Maliki sent 
the army toward the disputed city of Kirkuk. That move followed a series 
of skirmishes and mobilizations along the "Green Line" separating 
Kurdistan from Arab Iraq and a series of attacks in the area by al-Qaeda in 
Iraq. 
The recent protests underscore the collapse of the inclusive political 
accommodation reached in 2007, which had been reconfirmed by the 
formation of a grand Sunni-Shiite-Kurd coalition government after 
parliamentary elections in 2010. By November 2012, Maliki had evolved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028743 
to openly discussing his intention to form a "majoritarian government" 
that would exclude the most important Sunni representatives. In mid-
December he participated in creating a Shiite grand alliance as the 
launching pad for that government. The principal Sunni political leaders, 
including Issawi, parliamentary speaker Osama al-Nujaifiand Anbari tribal 
leader Ahmed abu Rishaannounced their intention to form their own 
coalition. In short, Iraqi politics was re-fragmenting along sectarian and 
ethnic lines even before the protests began. 
Understood in this context, the Iraqi army's killing of protesters in 
Fallujah last month is a watershed event similar to the destruction of the 
Askariya shrine in Samarra in February 2006, though the crisis will not 
escalate as quickly. Sunni-Shiite tensions have hitherto played out in 
political forums. The key actors in today's crisis are not the Sunni political 
leaders but, rather, Anbari tribal leaders, including Ali Hatem Ali 
Suleiman, one of the most powerful leaders of Iraq's largest Sunni tribe. 
Suleiman and fellow leaders of the Dulaim tribe were essential to 
engineering the Anbar Awakening in 2007 and Sunni participation in the 
government, for which they rejected al-Qaeda in Iraq and renounced 
violence against the state. They responded to the killings of protesters last 
month by threatening open war against the state for the first time since 
2007. So far at least, they have restrained protesters and resisted violent 
confrontation. 
For his part, Maliki has sought to deescalate the conflict and to mollify 
protesters. Tehran has also been working — to persuade Iraq's Sadrists, 
whom Maliki has alienated in his consolidation of power, to abandon their 
support for their Sunni brethren. Their combined efforts appear to be 
working: The Sadrist Bloc, which had refused Maliki's request for 
suggestions to replace Issawi and other Sunni politicians, has put forth a 
substitute finance minister. 
These efforts, ostensibly toward political resolution, actually increase the 
likelihood of sectarian war by continuing the marginalization of Sunni 
political leaders without addressing Sunni tribes' core grievances — and 
by re-creating a Shiite front that had splintered. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028744 
Al-Qaeda in Iraq has already taken advantage of this situation through its 
front group, the Islamic State of Iraq, which deployed combat teams in 
Fallujah last month that targeted Iraqi army positions and killed several 
soldiers. The jihadists' black flags have appeared at Sunni protests and 
memorial ceremonies for the fallen. The group is back in the havens it 
held in 2006. If Maliki does not allow proper Sunni representation in 
government, al-Qaeda will gain greater popular tolerance and foreign 
support. 
Over the past year, the situation in Iraq has become explosive while 
sectarian sentiment and armed violence in neighboring nations have 
escalated dramatically. Americans have become accustomed to watching 
Iraq approach the precipice and draw back. But circumstances have 
changed with the withdrawal of all U.S. forces and Maliki's year-long 
efforts to intimidate his opponents through political, judicial and military 
maneuvers. If Maliki does not accept many of the protesters' reasonable 
demands and allow meaningful Sunni participation in government, 
prospects for stopping Iraq's descent into sectarian conflict are grim. 
Kimberly Kagan is president of the Institute for the Study of War. 
Frederick W. Kagan is director of the Critical Threats Project and a 
scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. 
',allele 8. 
The American Spectator  
Islam and Islamism in the Modern World  
An interview with Daniel Pipes (By Tom Bethell) 
February 2013 -- Daniel Pipes, one of our leading experts on Islam, 
established the Middle East Forum and became its head in 1994. He was 
born in 1949 and grew up in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His father, 
Richard Pipes, was a professor of Russian history, now emeritus, at 
Harvard. Daniel studied Arabic and Islamic history and lived in Cairo for 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028745 
three years. His PhD dissertation became his first book, Slave Soldiers 
and Islam (1981). Then his interest in purely academic subjects expanded 
to include modern Islam. He left the university because, as he told an 
interviewer from Harvard Magazine, he has "the simple politics of a truck 
driver, not the complex ones of an academic." His story of being 
harassed through the legal system by a Muslim who later committed 
suicide was recently told in The American Spectator ("A Palestinian in 
Texas," TAS, November 2012). He has been personally threatened but 
prefers not to talk about specifics except to note that law enforcement has 
been involved. I interviewed Pipes shortly before Christmas, when the 
Egyptians were voting on their new constitution. I started out by saying 
that the number of Muslims in the U.S. has doubled since the 9/11 attacks. 
DP: My career divides in two: before and after 9/11. In the first part I was 
trying to show that Islam is relevant to political concerns. If you want to 
understand Muslims, I argued, you need to understand the role of Islam in 
their lives. Now that seems obvious. If anything, there's a tendency to 
over-emphasize Islam; to assume that Muslims are dominated by the 
Koran and are its automatons—which goes too far. You can't just read the 
Koran to understand Muslim life. You have to look at history, at 
personalities, at economics, and so on. 
TB: Do you see the revival of Islam as a reality? 
DP: Yes. Half a century ago Islam was waning, the application of its laws 
became ever more remote, and the sense existed that Islam, like other 
religions, was in decline. Since then there has been a sharp and I think 
indisputable reversal. We're all talking about Islam and its laws now. 
TB: At the same time you have raised an odd question: "Can Islam 
survive Islamism?" Can you explain that? 
DP: I draw a distinction between traditional Islam and Islamism. Islamism 
emerged in its modern form in the 1920s and is driven by a belief that 
Muslims can be strong and rich again if they follow the Islamic law 
severely and in its entirety. This is a response to the trauma of modern 
Islam. And yet this form of Islam is doing deep damage to faith, to the 
point that I wonder if Islam will ever recover. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028746 
TB: Give us the historical context. 
DP: The modern era for Muslims began with Napoleon's invasion of 
Egypt in 1798. Muslims experienced a great shock at seeing how 
advanced the blue-eyed peoples from the north had become. It would be 
roughly analogous to the Eskimos coming down south and decimating 
Westerners, who would uncomprehendingly ask in response, "Who are 
these people and how are they defeating us?" 
TB: So how did they respond? 
DP: Muslims over the past 200 years have made many efforts to figure out 
what went wrong. They have experimented with several answers. One was 
to emulate liberal Europe—Britain and France—until about 1920. Another 
was to emulate illiberal Europe—Germany and Russia—until about 1970. 
The third was to go back to what are imagined to be the sources of Islamic 
strength a millennium ago, namely the application of Islamic law. That's 
Islamism. It's a modern phenomenon, and it's making Muslims the center 
of world unrest. 
TB: But it is also creating discomfort? 
DP: It has terribly deleterious effects on Muslims. Many of them are put 
off by Islam. In Iran, for example, one finds a lot of alienation from Islam 
as a result of the Islamist rule of the last 30-odd years. 
TB: Has it happened anywhere else? 
DP: One hears reports, especially from Algeria and Iraq, of Muslims 
converting to Christianity. And in an unprecedented move, ex-Muslims 
living in the West have organized with the goal of becoming a political 
force. I believe the first such effort was the Centraal Comite voor Ex-
moslims in the Netherlands, but now it's all over the place. 
TB: Nonetheless, Islam has lasted for 1,500 years. 
DP: Yes, but modern Islamism has been around only since the 1920s, and 
I predict it will not last as a world-threatening force for more than a few 
decades. Will Muslims leave the faith or simply stop practicing it? These 
are the sort of questions I expect to be current before long. 
TB: What about Islam in the United States? 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028747 
DP: In the long term, the United States could greatly benefit Islam by 
uniquely freeing the religion from government constraints and permitting 
it to evolve in a positive, modern direction. But that's the long term. Right 
now, American Muslims labor under Saudi and other influences, their 
institutions are extreme, and things are heading in a destructive direction. 
It's also distressing to see how non-Muslim individuals and institutions, 
particularly those on the left, indulge Islamist misbehavior. 
TB: How do they do that? 
DP: Well, turn on the television, go to a class, follow the work of the 
ACLU or the Southern Poverty Law Center, and you will see corporations, 
nonprofits, and government institutions working with the Islamists, 
helping promote the Islamist agenda. The American left and the Islamists 
agree on what they dislike—conservatives—and, despite their profound 
differences, they cooperate. 
TB: Presumably some Muslims here deconvert, right? 
DP: There are some conversions out of Islam, yes. And the Muslim 
establishment in this country is quite concerned about that. But 
numerically it is not a significant number. 
TB: The ones who convert don't talk about it very much? 
DP: In some cases they do; they take advantage of Western freedoms to 
speak their minds. They are the exceptions, though. 
TB: I suspect that the decline of Christianity has encouraged Islam. 
DP: Very much so, as the contrast between Europe and the United States 
reveals. The hard kernel of American Christian faith, not present in 
Europe, means that Islamists are far better behaved in the United States. 
They see the importance of a Christian counterforce. 
TB: Earlier, you mentioned Algeria. It is a big Muslim state that we 
don't hear about today. 
DP: Twenty years ago Algeria was a major focus of attention. That long 
ago ended, although in France coverage is still significant. Algeria is ripe 
for the same kind of upheaval that we have seen in other North African 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028748 
states, such as Tunisia, Libya, and Egypt. I think it is likely to happen 
before too long. 
TB: What about Syria? 
DP: Assad's power is steadily diminishing and I cannot see how his 
regime will remain long in power. 
TB: Should the United States get involved there? 
DP: No, Americans have no dog in this fight and nothing in the U.S. 
Constitution requires us to get involved in every foreign conflict. Two 
wretched forces are killing each other; just look at the ghastly videos of 
the two sides torturing and executing the other. Listen also to what they 
are saying. It's a civil war involving the bad and the worse. I don't want 
the U.S. government involved. That would mean bearing some moral 
responsibility for what emerges, which I expect to be very unsavory. 
TB: So you are supporting the Obama position? 
DP: Yes, though he reaches it with far more angst. Also, there appears to 
be some serious, clandestine U.S. support for the rebel forces. The 
September 11 meeting in Benghazi between the Turkish and the American 
ambassadors was very curious. They are both based in Tripoli, hundreds 
of miles away. What were they doing in Benghazi? Arranging for 
American arms going via Turkey to Syria, it appears. 
TB: How important has Israel been to the revival of Islam? 
DP: It is a major factor in the neighboring states. But elsewhere, in 
Morocco, Iran, Malaysia, it has minor importance. 
TB: Since the "Arab Spring," Israel seems increasingly beleaguered. 
DP: Not really, not yet, though I agree that it will be more beleaguered 
with time. Its neighbors are so consumed with their own affairs that they 
hardly pay Israel attention. But once the neighbors get their houses in 
order, Israel will most likely face new difficulties. 
TB: You have questioned U.S. support for Islamic democracy, which 
does seem naive. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028749 
DP: The U.S. has been the patron for democracy for a century, since 
Wilson's 14 Points, and a wonderful heritage it has been. When an 
American travels the world, he finds himself in country after country 
where his country played a monumentally positive role, especially in 
democratizing the system. We naturally want to extend this to Muslim-
majority countries. Sadly, these for some time have offered an unpleasant 
choice between brutal and greedy dictators or ideological, extreme, and 
antagonistic elected Islamists. It's not a choice we should accept. 
TB: So what should we do? 
DP: I offer three simple guidelines. One, always oppose the Islamists. Like 
fascists and Communists, they are the totalitarian enemy, whether they 
wear long beards in Pakistan or suits in Washington. 
Two, always support the liberal, modern, secular people who share our 
worldview. They look to us for moral and other sustenance; we should be 
true to them. They are not that strong, and cannot take power soon 
anywhere, but they represent hope, offering the Muslim world's only 
prospect of escape from the dreary dichotomy of dictatorship or 
extremism. 
Three, and more difficult, cooperate with dictators but condition it on 
pushing them toward reform and opening up. We need the Mubaraks of 
the world and they need us. Fine, but relentlessly keep the pressure on 
them to improve their rule. Had we begun this process with Abdullah 
Saleh of Yemen in 1978 or with Mubarak in 1981, things could have been 
very different by 2011. But we didn't. 
TB: Egypt might be the test case. 
DP: Well, it's a bit late. Mohammed Morsi is not a greedy dictator but he 
emerged from the Muslim Brotherhood, and his efforts since reaching 
power have been purely Islamist. 
TB: What about the recent elections? 
DP: I do not believe that a single one of the elections and referenda in 
Egypt was fairly conducted. It surprises me that Western governments and 
media are so gullible on this score. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028750 
TB: You could say we were supporting the democracy element in Cairo's 
Tahrir Square. Were we not? 
DP: Yes and rightly so. The initial demonstrations of early 2011 were 
spearheaded by the liberals and seculars who deserve U.S. support. But 
they got quickly pushed aside and Washington barely paid them further 
attention. 
TB: We gave foreign aid to Mubarak. Was that a bad idea? 
DP: That aid dates back to the utterly different circumstances of the 
Egypt-Israel peace treaty of 1979 and became progressively more wrong-
headed. It should long ago have been discontinued. More broadly, I 
believe in aid for emergencies (soup and blankets) and as a bribe, but not 
for economic development. That the Obama administration is 
contemplating aid, including military hardware, to the Morsi government 
outrages me. 
Click here to Reply or Forward 
22.2 GB (10%) of 210.1 GBManage 
©2013 Google - Terms & Privacy 
Last account activity: 0 minutes ago 
Details 
*********************************************************** 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
Jeffrey Epstein 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028751 
