From: John Brockman 
Sent: 2/6/2017 8:34:19 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: sorry I missed your call 
Importance: High 
3E, 
--Last week was misery.. .On Tuesday, Katinka's' younger brother, Jonathan Matson, was planning on flying 
in from Boston and having dinner with her. After several emails back and forth in the morning, he wrote 
to say he was packed and ready to leave the house but he had been fighting a stomach bug, so he had 
decided it was best to postpone and go to bed. He was fine at 6pm when his wife (a mass General health 
professional) came home. She brought him a coke, went downstairs to make dinner. Half an hour later she 
went upstairs to check on him. He had died. We got the news at 9pm on a phone call from someone we hadn't 
talked to in 20 years" "Jonathan Matson has died" was impossible to process. Katinka is still was 
distraught and, just coming out of shock. 
--And...this, from my older brother Philip ("Distinguished NASA Physcist" awardee), who had prostate 
surgery about 25 years, and got lucky be living in Raliegh-Durham, near Duke medical center which is 
tops. They've kept him alive and it's finally caught up to him: 
"1 have run out of standard treatments. chemo is getting less effective with increasing side effects. 
There is a new drug Keytruda it has been approved for some cancers but is still experimental for prostate 
cancer. 
https://prostatecancernewstoday.com/pembrolizumab-immune-therapy-help-men-prostate-cancer/. I have been 
approved to get Keytruda and will start on Thursday." 
--Finally, did I ever tell you about the Biosphere crowd? Absolutely nutty cult I represented in the 
early 90s. (Although individually the people were sometimes fun). My friend Roy walford, the doctor 
inside the Biosphere, eventually died because of a condition he developed while inside. I kept sending 
writers down there to work with them and they would inevitably sneak away in the dead of night. I had to 
sell their book three times, each time for a fractions of the previous advance which started in 7 
figures. Turns out Bannon took over as CEO of the place in 1993 so we may have overlapped. See: 
Steve Bannon Was Once Hired to manage an Artificial World of People Living Under Glass (Before the Trump 
campaign)-
http://slate.me/2kesDun 
In the office this afternoon and after 10:30am tomorrow. 
1111111111111mobile 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030430 
