From: Edward Epstein 
Sent: 8/18/2017 1:23:10 PM 
To: Jeff Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: FYI 
Importance: High 
Hi Jeff 
I thought this might interest you 
Edward Jay Epstein 
July ii, 2W / 
Polities and law 
The 2016 presidential campaign was marked by three disclosure operations, all of which appear to 
have had a single author. "Oppo research" is the euphemism commonly used in elections for such 
operations. The mechanism is fairly simple: dirt is obtained from wherever it can be found to 
discredit an opponent. It is then "leaked," usually either anonymously or on background, to targeted 
media channels. What makes the 2016 campaign particularly interesting from a counterintelligence 
perspective is not that both sides had their own disclosure operations, but that both sides were 
offered the dirt for them by a common source: Russian intelligence. 
As we now know from the emails of Donald Trump Jr., a thinly veiled intermediary, Natalya 
Veselnitskaya, offered the Trump campaign documents that putatively would show that Hillary 
Clinton had received illegal donations from Russian financiers; in the event, no such documents 
were proffered. But it is a reasonable assumption that Veselnitskaya could not have made such an 
offer, especially in a meeting attended by three other Russians, unless the move was approved by 
the FSB, the Russian security service. 
A second disclosure operation, this one involving supporters of the Clinton campaign, was more 
layered. The proximate intermediary was Fusion GPS, a research firm used by the law firm Baker 
Hostetler, and the secondary "cut-out" was the British firm Orbis, co-founded by former MI-6 
officer Christopher Steele. We know something about this sub-contractor from the depositions 
Steele gave in defending a libel suit in London. According to Steele, Fusion GPS not only had him 
prepare the so-called "dossier" on Trump but also directed Steele to "leak" it to specified reporters 
at Mother Jones, Yahoo, the New York Times, the Washington Post, The New Yorker, and CNN. In 
some cases, Steele was directed to brief the selected journalists personally. The dirt in these "leaks" 
relied heavily on information supplied by two Russian government sources: Source A, whom Steele 
calls "a senior Russian Foreign Ministry figure"; and Source B, "a former top-level intelligence 
officer still active in the Kremlin." Sources A and B provided information supposedly exposing a 
long-time Russian FSB operation to get compromising information that could be used to control 
Trump. The idea that two Russian intelligence sources would reveal a long-time Kremlin-backed 
FSB operation bears further examination. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025548 
Michael More11, a former acting CIA director, casts light on the sourcing of the dirt in the Steele 
dossier. "I had two questions when I first read [the dossier]," More11 said in an NBC interview. 
"One was, how did Chris [Steele] talk to these sources? I have subsequently learned that he used 
intermediaries. I asked myself, why did these guys provide this information, what was their 
motivation? And I subsequently learned that he paid them. That the intermediaries paid the sources 
and the intermediaries got the money from Chris." 
Paying ex-FSB officers for sensitive information? As Steele is no doubt aware, there is no such 
thing as an ex-FSB officer. All Russian intelligence officers, whether currently or formerly 
employed, if in Russia, operate under the same tough security regime. The selling of secret 
information by them is espionage, pure and simple. Selling it to someone connected to an adversary 
intelligence service greatly compounds the crime. Sources A and B (through their intermediaries) 
knew that they were dealing with an ex-MI-6 man who could use their betrayal of secrets against 
them. The only safe way for A and B to provide the requested dirt would be to clear it with the 
security regime at the FSB. This precaution, a required step in such exchanges, would mean that the 
dirt in the dossier, whether true or false, was curated by the FSB and spoon-fed to Steele. If so, the 
FSB was the surreptitious provider of this part of the Steele dossier. 
The third disclosure operation involved stolen emails from the DNC bearing on the unfair treatment 
by Democratic Party officials of Bernie Sanders, which were posted on the DC Leaks website. 
President Obama identified the Kremlin as the author of this operation, saying "These data theft 
and disclosure activities could only have been directed by the highest levels of the Russian 
government." If so, as in the previous cases, the FSB would have curated the dirt. To be sure, oppo-
research operatives, because of their singular focus on getting usable slime, are highly vulnerable to 
shady offers, but why would Russia so blatantly feed the slime to all sides in a campaign? 
The United States has a wide array of tools for monitoring Russian intelligence, including the 
world's most sophisticated sensors for intercepting signals, but discovering the Kremlin's motives 
remains an elusive enterprise because, unlike in a scientific inquiry, one cannot fully trust the 
observable data. While a scientist can safely assume that the microbes he observes through the lens 
of a microscope are not employing guile to mislead him, an intelligence analyst cannot make 
similar assumptions about the content of intercepted communications from Russia. If one assumes 
that the Russians do not know that the channel is being monitored—an assumption which, 
following the defection of Edward Snowden to Russia, is hard to make prudently—then the 
intelligence gleaned from that channel can reveal the Kremlin's activities and motive. If, however, 
it is understood that the Russians know that a channel is being monitored, the information conveyed 
over it can be considered a disclosure operation. 
If, for example, a Mafia family finds out that the FBI is tapping its telephone lines, it can use those 
lines to burn its rivals. The Kremlin can also use a knowntapped phone line to its advantage. 
Consider, for example, the tapped phone of Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak. On December 1, 
2016, Kislyak went to Trump Tower to meet Jared Kushner and Michael Flynn. According to 
Kushner's version of that meeting, Kislyak suggested that Russian generals could supply 
information about Russian military operations in Syria on the condition that the Trump transition 
team provide a "secure line in the transition office." Of course, as Kislyak likely knew, transition 
teams don't have secure lines to Moscow. Kushner responded by asking if the Russian embassy 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025549 
could supply such a "secure line." Kislyak then used an open phone line at his embassy to relay 
Kushner's response to his foreign ministry in Moscow. It is inconceivable that Kislyak did not 
know that the call would be monitored by the FBI, since the FBI had routinely listened in on these 
lines for the past 68 years, or that his discussion of Kushner's request would set off alarm bells in 
the intelligence community. 
If Kislyak had wanted to hide this exchange from U.S. intelligence, he could have easily sent it 
under diplomatic cover directly to Moscow, used a secure line, or relayed it in a coded fashion. By 
communicating the message en clair, or in plaintext, Kislyak skillfully exposed Kushner's 
incredibly stupid response, which he himself had provoked, to stoke distrust about the incoming 
president within the U.S. intelligence community. Nor was this the only mistrust Kislyak 
cultivated: the conversations on the monitored phone led to the firing of National Security Advisor 
Michael Flynn, and conversations that Kislyak had with Attorney General Jeff Sessions led to 
Sessions's recusing himself from the Russian investigation, which has now driven a wedge between 
President Trump and one of his most effective and popular cabinet members. 
Kislyak's resume indicates that he is a well-regarded and competent player in the game of nations: 
he has served as Second Secretary of the Soviet UN mission in New York, First Secretary of the 
Soviet Embassy in Washington, Deputy Director of the Soviet Department of International 
Organizations in Moscow, Permanent Russian representative to NATO in Brussels, Deputy Foreign 
Minister, and Ambassador to the United States. Nothing in his 37-year career, either during or after 
the Cold War, suggests that his moves are not aligned with Kremlin strategy. 
But when it comes to the various disclosures and interventions surrounding the 2016 election, what 
exactly was that strategy? 
In a report issued on January 6, 2017, entitled "Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in 
Recent U.S. Elections," the U.S. intelligence community concluded, based both on its sources and 
its analysis of stories on the Russian-controlled network RT, that Putin wanted to hurt Clinton, help 
Trump, and discredit the American election. These may well have been motives of the Russian 
president, but the narrowly focused assessment fails to explain, or even take into account, Kislyak's 
post-election ensnarement of Kushner, or the discrediting dirt against Trump. If Putin had really 
wanted to help Trump win the election, why did Russian sources provide damaging dirt to Steele, 
which could have cost Trump the election? Why did Kislyak provide the FBI with information, via 
a known tapped line, that could (and did) compromise key members of Trump's administration? 
A wider focus can be found, of all places, in Oliver Stone's revealing, if fawning, four-hour 
interview with Putin, in which the Russian dictator makes clear that he views American hegemony, 
including America's standing and respect in the international community, as a threat that Russia 
must counter. One way to undermine America's standing is to provide disclosures that can be used 
by its own political factions, and the media, to sow distrust in America's reliability as a democracy 
founded on transparency. Putin tells the truth when he says that it doesn't matter particularly to 
Russia whether Clinton or Trump won the election: his goal was to install doubt in the legitimacy 
of the process, regardless of how it turned out. 
Edward Jay Epstein's most recent book is How America Lost Its Secrets: Edward 
Snowden, the Man and the Theft, published by Alfred A. Knopf in January. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025550 
