From: Kathy Ruemmler 
Sent: 8/14/2018 2:09:34 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: Viceland 
Importance: High 
i Privileged - Redacted 
On Aug 14, 2018, at 10:07 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
Privileged - Redacted 
On Tue, Aug 14, 2018 at 10:06 AM, Kathy Ruemmler < 
Privileged - Redacted 
On Aug 13, 2018, at 3:32 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
----------Forwarded message---------- 
From: Martin Weinberg <M1.1> 
Date: Mon, Aug 13, 2018 at 3:30 PM 
Subject: Fwd: Viceland 
To: Jeff Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>, Martin Weinberg < 
Fyi 
Sent from my iPhone 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Matt Williams < 
Date: August 13, 2018 at 3:15:32 PM EDT 
To: "Martin G. Weinberg" < 
Subject: Re: Viceland 
Thank you Marty, 
wrote: 
The questions we wanted to reach out to Mr Epstein for comment are listed below. Feel free to contact me on 
after reviewing. Kind regards - Matt 
A former employee has told us that Donald Trump attended Mr Epstein's Palm Beach estate on at least two occasions. Does Mr 
Epstein recall hosting Donald Trump at that residence? 
On one such occasion, it has been suggested to us that Mr Epstein and Donald Trump watched "young girls try on bikinis" while 
making comments on the their bodies." Does Mr Epstein have any comment? 
How does Mr Epstein respond to claims that women - some under the legal age of sexual consent - were used as "sex slaves" at his 
properties? 
A former employee of Mr Epstein has alleged to us that Mr Epstein sexually assaulted her on 
numerous occasions. Does Mr Epstein have a comment? 
Did or does Mr Epstein have cameras inside rooms at his Palm Beach residence? 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022819 
Did Mr Epstein remove those cameras before police raided the property as part of the investigation into alleged crimes? Did Mr 
Epstein ever hand over any recordings from any cameras at his properties to the authorities as part of his non-prosecution 
agreement? 
Does Mr Epstein have in his possession any video recordings of Donald Trump taken from inside his Palm Beach estate or any other 
residence? 
Did Mr Epstein hold sex parties at his residences involving girls under the age of sexual consent? Was Donald Trump ever present at 
any of these parties? 
Has Mr Epstein upheld the conditions of his sentencing and registered as a sex offender in all jurisdictions in which he is due to do so? 
Does Mr Epstein have any comment regarding allegations made by a woman named in the media aMI-elating 
to her being sexually abused by Mr Epstein or used as a "sex slave"? 
ENDS 
On 13 August 2018 at 14:52, Martin G. Weinberg <____________________ wrote: 
If you still want, send the questions. I would talk with you off the record after reviewing them (reserving the right at my 
option to make an on the record statement), hope that works for you. Marty 
From: Matt Williams  
Sent: Saturday, August 11, 2018 12:41 PM 
To: Martin G. Weinberg  
Subject: Re: Viceland 
Hello Martin, 
Thank you for getting back to me. We would be looking for on record comments or a "no comment" to our 
questions. But I am certainly happy to have an off record conversation with yourself as well. Perhaps we 
could set up a time to chat briefly off record on Monday before I send you our questions for Mr Epstein? 
Kind regards, 
Matt 
On 11 August 2018 at 11:08, Martin G. Weinberg < wrote: 
Mr Williams, I am in receipt of your emails to Jackie Percyzk. If you first agree that any communications between you 
and me are off the record, I would be agreeable to receiving your questions or a clip of the episode that relates to Mr 
Epstein. Thanks. 
Martin G Weinberg PC 
20 Park Plaza  
Suite 1000  
Boston, MA 02116  
Tel 
Cell 
Virus-free. www.avast.com  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022820 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022821 
