14 The Virgin Islands Daily News 
PERVERSION OF JUSTICE 
Thursday, February 28, 2019 
PERVERSION 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 13 
as a massage often led to masturbation, oral 
se=rszvclother sex act, police and 
dropped his towel, exposing himself. The alkged abuse dat. back to 2001 and 
lie told Licata to get comfortable and then. went on for years. 
in a fimt voice, told her to take off .r cloth.. prosecutors, special offer 
At 16, Limta had never before been fitlly na-
ked in front of anyone. 
Shaking and panicked. 
she mechanically 
pulled off her jeans 
and stripped down ttt 
herar=reer 
for 30 minutes and 
then reached over and 
unsnap,. her bra. He 
then began touching 
her with me hats. 
"I kept looking a t 
the timer because I 
didn't want to have 
ts..7.1.:ndoaf.;:f 
she remembered of the 
massage...He kept 
= ' hallr 
to pinch his nippl.. 
tijInlao raat,tiYhart"g 
harder and do this. 
• • • 
MiChelle LiCata SayS She waS 16 when She fitSt vnirenraOgin'as 
h=e;:snr home on El Brill° Way to give hirn a massage. She says he tried to 
„siheri ihe shower. Penetrate her with his fingers. 
l'hell7d2enheinalaust.'ory c ass. 
It wasn't long before allot of Licata, fellow 
students at Royal Palm Beach High School 
had heard about "a army old guy" named 
Jeffrey who lived in a pink waterfront mansion 
and was paying !iris S200 . =Jo give him 
InaEZrnairitilryt, f4.11aInt Beach police, and then 
the FBI, came knocking on Licata's dO0r. In 
Iteltoce7f,"=:`,3r=1:=7, 1 a 
wOuld be many 
more Jane Do. to fol.: 
Jane Doe No. 3, Jane Doe 
No. 4, Jane Does 5,6,7.8 
— and as the years went by 
— Jane Does 102 and 103. 
Long before frMeToo 
bmame.the catalyst for a t 
72cntrl als au I teff nartxra" 
decade before the fall of 
Haney Weinstein, Bill Aff1'0Y EPS,. 
Cosby and U.S. Olympic 
gymnast. doctor Larry Nassar — there was 
Jeffrey Edward Epstein. 
Epstein, a mult.tillionairc hedge fund 
manager whose friends included a constella-
tiOn of entertainers, politieian, buStheSS titans 
and royalty. for years lured teenage girls to his 
Palm Beach mansion as part of a cult-like s. 
pyramid scheme. police in t. town of Palm 
BeaCh found. 
The girls arrived, sometimes by taxi, for 
trysts at all hours of the day and night. 
Few were told much more than that they 
would be paid to give an old man a massage 
— and that . might ask them to strip down to 
their undenvear or get naked. But what began 
In 2007, despite ampk physical evidence 
and multipk witnesses corroborating t. girls" 
stori., federal prosecutors and Epstein, law-
yers quietly put together a remarkable deal for 
Epstein, then 54. 
Hc agreed to plead guilty to two felony pros-
titution charg. in state court, and in exchange, 
he and his accomplices received immunity 
from federal sex-trafficking charges that could 
have sent him to prison for life. 
Hc served 13 months in a ptivate wing of 
the Palm Beach County stocicade. His alleged 
co-conspitatOrs, whO helped schedule his sex 
session, were never prosecuted. 
The deal. call. a federal nomprosecution 
agreene=sfIetrd 
of Epstein, crimes and who else was involved. 
Thc U.S. attorney in Miami, Alexander 
Acosta, was personally involved in the negotia-
tions, records, letters and entails show. 
Acosta is now a member of Pr.ident 
Donald Trump, Cabinet. As U.S. secretary of 
Labor, he has oversight over international child 
labor laws and human trafficking. 
"How come people who don't have money 
get sent to jail — and can't even makc bail — 
and they have to do their time and sit there and 
think about what they did wrong? He had no 
repercussiorn and doesn't even beliew hc did 
.ribcf2:=8,", stud Licata, now 30. 
officially identifictryTernat 
Vrent su;y:tsiOftftreteextvictims of EpstLitt n2thoov8. 
witnesses and allegedcZtiwmaas tcestified in civil 
court that there were hundreds of girls who 
were brought to Epstein, homes, including 
girls from Empe, Latin America and former 
Soviet Republic countries. 
But Acosta and Epstein's 
armada of attorneys — 
711:7=vii't "Pi rald - 
Reofy'Bul ralC ic.att ytd= 
former Whitewater special 
=1".clo'n"th !rprstn 
1.:daaciradInce.r svetatr acenp= I" a 
There were really j. 
"rtIO'Ignog:Z: 
aliceftiPcIt1=Patt" 
Detective Joreph Recarcy. 
For Reiter. business 
J.:',0YrEeTer,,dabie 
than any of t. other 8.000 
or so wealthy and po:teartf,din 
Irr cas. involving 
wealthy residents before — from the murders 
of heiresses to the rape case tnvolvmg William 
I.nnedy Smith, a the Kennedy family. 
The msternmost town in Florida, Palm 
Beach is a 10.4-square-mile barrier island 
between the Intracoastal Waterway and thc At-
lantic Ocean populated by some of the rich.t 
IratildnetrthteTenTpuils's his "winter White 
nieZs nt1 rdast=7:11tr 
unusual efforts to preserve its well-mannered 
image, like banning shinless joggers. 
But it was a linle surprising, even to Reiter, 
to learn that one of its residents had a revolv-
ing door of middle school and high school girls 
coming to his gated mmpound throughout t. 
day and night. 
In thcir first media interviews about the case, 
Reiter and Roca, revmled ncw details about 
thy inwstigation, and how they were, in their 
view, pr.sured by then-Palm Beach State At-
= = 'Lir; ar =PIZ f't ase 
Between March of 2005 — w.n the care 
was opened — and seven months bier, whcn 
rioolice crcuted:asdeazInit;a2,7 at Eprin, 
tvii:Itric:o=tfylatViCert ired acted 
By the time police felt they had enough 
evidence to arrest Epstein on sex charg.. they 
.d identified about 35 possible underage 
tims and were tracking down at least a dozen 
more, the poli. report said. 
vas sumrised at how quickly it snow 
balled. I thought at some point there would 
be a last interview, but the n.t victim would 
Kenneth Starr 
Michael Reiter 
reignee.4"="0:tra=rd,. 
kept getting bigger and bigger,” Rec.y said. 
Blaming the victims 
• 
By then, word had gotten 
back to Epstein from somc 
of the girls that they had 
bEeplrhaitrie7f=dPac;er 
Alan Dershcnvitz. 
"Alan Dershowitz flew 
down and met privately 
with Krischet, Recarey 
said. "And the shenanigans 
that happened, I don't think Alan D.... 
I'vc ever seen or heard of 
before." 
Police reports show that Epstein, private 
investigators attempted to conduct inter-
views while posing as cops; that they picked 
through Reiter, trash in search of dirt to 
discredit him; and that the private inv.tiga-
tors were accused of following the girls and 
their families. 
In one case, the father of one girl claimed 
hc had been run off!. road by a private 
int,Traat.-PuIetrnia',=;re 
dated and frightened by Epstein and Sarah 
1.11en, the millionaire's assistant and alleged 
scheduler of massage, who warned them 
not to talk to police, according to the police 
report. 
Dershowitz, in an interview with the Her-
ald, said he .d nothing to do with gathering 
background on the girls — or in directing 
stitrztrilifitInw the police, or t. girls and 
"I'm not an investigator. My only job was 
I:iv:oast:1nd try thc mse when it comes to 
Ile nevertheless convinced Krischer that 
the girls would not be credible on the witn.s 
stand, according to Reiter and Recarecy...n 
doTsslicercskotil=1:117ntgeaftfi7rst to shPJ,:d 
that Epstein, accusers had troubled pasts. 
Dershowitz met with Krischer and Recarey, 
sharing with them the results of an inv.tiga-
tion into onc of the girls whom Dershowitz 
described as "an accomplished drama stu-
dent" who hurled profaniti. at his investiga-
tor at "a furious pace." 
"Our investigation had discovered at least 
one of her websites and I am enelming some 
examples ... t. site goes on to detail, includ-
f:„seetlt.i.°1:,""el,;Id'ated 
letter to Recarey. He also disputed the claim 
that onc of the defense tcam's private investi-
gators .d misrepr.cnted himself as a police 
officer. 
Recarcy stood his ground. 
“Fl is attomeys showed us a MySpacc page 
whcrc one of the girls was holding a beer 
in her hand, and they said, 'oh look, she is 
underage drinking,— Recarey recalled. "Well, 
tell me what teenager dtresn't? DOes that 
mean she isn't a victim because she drank 
a beer? Basically. what you're telling me is 
the only victim of a sexual battery could be a 
nuKrischer and the lead state Prese.for . 
the case, Assistant State Attorney Lanna Be-
lohlavek, beg= to dodge Remrey and Reiter, 
rlitrf:t"Ona:jdtp=lndly toe"' dIgerecir and 
Recarey said. 
"Early on, it became clear that things had 
changed, from ICrisc.r saying, 'we'll put this 
guy awtiy fOr tO 'these 911 the reasons 
why we aren't going to prosccutc 
Reiter said. 
Krischcr, v.o is now retired and in private 
rittafni 'Helm% d ITUkteh t 
also did not respond to an email sent to her 
office. 
"It bmame apparent to me that some of 
our evidence was being leaked to Epstein, 
lawyers.hwho began to question everything 
tRtzesailt,i1. in our probable cause affidavit,-
=hit! tomorrow: Searching Epstein, 
