impressed a pupil's father who then recruited-him to a job on Wall 
Street. Epstein used his mathematical knowledge to develop complex 
formulae that could be applied to financial markets, especially in the 
area of currency exchange. He went on to form his own company and 
began advising Leslie Wexner, the billionaire creator of the Limited 
Brands group, which owns, among other extremely successful 
companies, Victoria's Secret and La Senza. Some on Wall Street believe 
that Wexner is the source of Epstein's fortune, although the version 
Epstein seems to prefer is that he advises a number of very rich clients. 
Intriguingly, he is said to have a permit to carry a gun. Epstein's talents 
are not restricted to mathematics. He plays the piano to concert 
standard (there is a nine-foot Steinway grand in his house) and he 
cultivates Nobel Prize-winning scientists with whom he engages 
in arcane conversation.. . 
'Ghislaine was totally in thrall to him,' Rupert 
Fairfax said:. Ile death of her father left a terrible 
gap in her lifeand Jeffrey-filled it. I remember seeing 
them together in Aspen. Jeffrey was everything to 
her. He lifted her up at a time when she was very 
down.' C4hislainfrfriends have asserted tharshe 
desperately wanted to marry Epstein, but that their 
romance turned into what one has described as 'an 
affectionate business relationship'. Epstein provided 
Ghislaine with a home, a beaux-arts townhouse on 
the Upper Fast Side close to his own residence. He 
also gave her the wherewithal to run it in a grand 
manner; she employed a substantial staff, including a 
full-time butler and maid who had their own 
quarters at the property. Ghislaine appeared effortlessly to establish 
herself as one of New York's leading socialites. Witness, for instance, the 
party she threw for Allegra Hicks, the designer ex-wife ofAshley Hicks, a 
grandson of Earl Mountbatten and second cousin of the Prince of Wales. 
The 80 guests at Ghislaine's house included Hollywood actor Matthew 
Modine, at least one Rockefeller, a Radziwill and numerous 
billionaires. After toasting the future of Allegra's new shop in New York 
with vintage Dom Perignon, Ghislaine took her guests to the library, 
where the books had been given fake spines with titles naming her 
friends. The party, like many she hosted, was a triumph and her success 
gave the slightly gauche Epstein a social entree that had thus far eluded 
him. She is credited with helping him forge a friendship with Bill 
Clinton, among other figures of influence. 
But even Epstein could scarcely have imagined she would create an 
opportunity for friendship with a member of the British royal family — 
Prince Andrew, whom she appears to have met in London when he was 
`Ghislaine was 
totally in thrall 
to him. The death 
of her father left 
a terrible gap in 
her life and Jeffrey 
filled it' 
working at the Minstry of Defence. At the turn of the millennium, 
Ghislaine and Andrew were hardly ever apart, enjoying eight different 
jaunts together in the space of a year. In February 2000, they holidayed 
in Palm Beach. Then they travelled to New York for a fashion show. A 
month later, Andrew was back in New York at a fundraiser for the 
London Symphony Orchestra, again accompanied by Ghislaine. A few 
weeks after that, Andrew returned for another round of socialising with 
Ghislaine. The following month, they met up for another holiday in 
Florida. In the autumn, Andrew flew to New York, where he and 
Ghislaine were spotted together. Just before Christmas, Andrew gave a 
house party at Sandringham to mark Ghislaine's 39th birthday. A few 
weeks later, in January 2001, they were on holiday again, in Phuket. • 
What was going on? Was it a romance? No, said informed sources. 
Because on at least five of the eight occasions when Andrew and 
Ghislaine were together, Jeffrey Epstein was there as 
well. Andrew invited them both to Windsor for the 
Queen's birthday party. One of Epstein's friends, 
Nobel Prize-winning scientist Murray Gell-Mann, 
said he understood that Epstein had given the 
Queen financial advice. 
After almost 10 years together, Ghislaine had 
become what Epstein characterised as his 'best 
friend'. He once denied that she was on his payroll, 
but ratiainquiries suggest that her financial 
infireadiliLdirectly back to Epstein.4 1995 a 
company called Ghislainwas registered in 
Florida, with offices at Epstein's Palm Beach 
address. Whenever Ghislaine is asked what she 
does, she says she is managing director of a company calleddiftiork 
illeirnamb Not much is known about this company except that, 
according to records, it is in the business of investment counselling. 
That is Epstein's area of expertise and closer inspection shows that New 
York Strategy Group is just another part of his financial empire. So if 
Ghislaine really does work for Epstein, what does she do? 
There is, in fact, a clue buried in the court documentation from 
Pennsylvania. In 2003 a writ was filed by Nelson Shanks, the celebrated 
portraitist whose sitters have included Pope John Paul II, Ronald 
Reagan and Diana, Princess of Wales. Shanks claimed that he had been 
hired to paint the clothing billionairelkesliellair his wife Abigail 
and their children. Yet when Shanks finished the picture, Wexner 
refused to pay for it, owing $339,000. When Shanks sued for his money 
— successfully, .gs.it turned out — he also named Jeffrey Epstein and 
Ghislaine Maxwell. It was Ghislaine, he said; who hadapproached him 
and arranged the deal with Wexner. Epstein wa.S also involved, he said. It 
Below from left, Ghislaine with Imran Khan; Keith Richards; and Yasmin Le Bon 
