Date: Friday, June 22 2012 11:08 PM 
Subject: From Christina: Fwd: Project in Haiti: CEFOTAJ, SA 
From: Jeffrey Epstein <jeffreyepsteinorg©gmail.com > 
To: 
CC: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation©gmail.com>; Cecile de Jongh 
Attachments: DSC_0418.JPG; DSC_0419.JPG; DSC_0424.JPG; Cefotaj Business Plan Final 5-18-11(1).docx 
<› 
Dear Unik, 
It was a pleasure to speak with you today. I have removed the press release from our website and it will be 
removed from PR newswire. My sincere apologies for any inconvenience. 
As mentioned, I am forwarding you this project in Haiti which looks very inspiring. I am cc'ing Jeffrey and 
Cecile on this too. 
My best regards and I will keep you posted on the press release removal from PR Newswire. 
Sincerely, 
Christina 
Media/PR 
----------Forwarded message 
From: Marlene Edme 
Date: Fri, Jun 22, 2012 at 12:59 PM 
Subject: Project in Haiti: CEFOTAJ, SA 
To:  Jeffrey Epstein <jeffreyepsteinorg@gmail.com  > 
Cc: 
Dear Mr. Epstein: 
Please allow me to introduce myself My name is Marlene Edme; I am the founder and President. .For above-
mentioned organization and Yair Fatal is the Project Director. The organization was founded in 2007 with the 
mission of providing free technical skills in the garment industry to the people in the Southeastern department 
of Haiti. Following the earthquake, the living and economic conditions are deplorable. More than ever, 
CEFOTAJ wants to double its effort to help the community of Jacmel out of desperation by providing the youth 
with valuable sustainable skills. With a trade under their belt, the youth will be more confident while seeking 
employment. 
We have obtained our 501 - C (3) in 2008 and have recently received the approval of the Haiti's Department of 
Planning to be a non-governmental organization (NGO). The organization's building that will house the 
school is currently under construction. 
Based on our research, we found that you are very committed to helping Haiti. The purpose of this 
correspondence is to solicit The Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation assistance with grant coordination and 
facilitation to help our organization get off the ground. With potential help from the international community, 
we believe that the project would be rewarding for the citizens of the city of Jacmel and in line with the 
requirements of the Haiti Reconstruction Plan and President Obama recent legislation of the "Hope" law.. 
Please find enclosed a copy of the project which provides detailed information about the curriculum for the 
different programs that the school will offer. We trust that you will find this to be an interesting project with 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019446 
great potential. 
If you require additional information, please feel free to contact us at 
. We look forward to hearing from you. 
Sincerely, 
Marlene Edme 
President 
or 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019447 
