Robin Solomon
In a career spanning three decades in academic medicine, Robin Solomon has combined patient care, clinical
research, philanthropy and business development expertise to build strategic alliances, brand recognition and
revenue. In evolving leadership roles at The Mount Sinai Medical Center, she has developed a reputation for her
innovative programming, quick grasp of new situations and common sense approaches to challenging problems.
She is recognized for her comprehensive understanding of the healthcare sector, including operating models, the
political and regulatory environment, shifting demographics, financial opportunities and economic trends. Her
eighteen years as an ICU nurse informs the way she navigates patient care on a human level, collaborates with
physicians and persuasively conveys the potential impact of philanthropic gifts to donors.
Board and Donor Relations, Medical Navigation. As Vice President, Trustee Services, Robin developed and led
a high-touch, best in class Donor Relations program. The services include 24/7 medical direction, referrals and
oversight to the Mount Sinai Board and donor community to optimize the patient experience. Robin established
relationships and gained participation from prestigious corporate, financial, and legal firms including Goldman
Sachs, Paul Weiss Rifkind, Schulte Roth, Donna Karan, Warner Music and Federated Department Stores. This
program has generated hundreds of physician referrals and over $20 million in incremental revenue each year. As a
patient advocate, Robin has participated in thousands of multi-disciplinary patient care teams from initial consults to
final outcomes.
Philanthropy. Robin’s trusted relationships with medical, business, civic, and community leaders enable her to
secure funds needed to advance medical, academic and patient care initiatives. During her tenure, she raised over
$29 million in donations from individuals, corporations and foundations. Robin conceived, co-chaired and ran “A
Toast to Health” an annual wine benefit, which raised $17 million dollars over nine years, consistently attained over
85% event underwriting. She has directed philanthropic funds to capital projects including an upgrade of the
emergency room, complete renovation of the Neonatal and Pediatric ICU’s and state-of-the art modernization of a
medical school lecture hall. Her efforts have also provided $2.8 million for scholarships to The Mount Sinai School
of Medicine and supported programs including Visiting Doctors, Palliative Care Fellowships, and perinatal
bereavement social work.
Global Health. Robin has planned and executed cogent responses to critical international medical needs. At the
request of President Clinton’s office, she arranged for physicians and medical supplies to be sent with first
responders in the days following the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. She collaborated with military leaders, USAID, and
Dr. Paul Farmer of Partners in Health to organize transport of fully supplied surgical teams and re-open the
University Hospital in Port au Prince. In 2006, in close coordination with Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf
and her ministers, Robin established a medical mission to Liberia. She obtained private funding to send physicians
and support personnel to provide medical care and surgical interventions. The project has continued and led to
administration of the first chemotherapy and pap screening clinic in Monrovia.
Clinical Research Leadership. As Assistant Dean for Clinical Trial Operations and Business Development, she
designed and led the Office of Clinical Trials, key to advancing translational research. She launched marketing and
outreach programs to convey Mount Sinai’s research capabilities. These efforts attracted ongoing contracts from
Novartis, Smith Kline Beecham, Amgen and Pfizer and other pharmaceutical and biotech companies. She facilitated
over $18 million in grant funding, increased clinical trials by 40% and grew patient enrollment by over 320%
annually.
Robin was Senior Research Coordinator on a CDC multicenter study measuring the effects of using safety devices
for drawing blood, inserting IV’s and giving injections. The manufacturers extended the study solely at The Mount
Sinai Hospital. This research opened the multi-billion dollar market for safety devices. Earlier, Robin coordinated
and performed clinical research at Cornell University Medical College’s Surgical Metabolism Laboratory.
Patient Care. Robin’s clinical expertise was developed over more than eighteen years as an ICU nurse at New York
Hospital, Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital and The Mount Sinai Medical Center. The scope of her medical
knowledge reflects years of hands-on patient care and thousands of decision-making conversations with physicians
and families.
Robin holds a Master of Science in Exercise Physiology, cum laude from the University of Massachusetts and
Bachelor of Science in Nursing, cum laude from the University of Florida.
