From: Lisa New 
Sent: 12/2/2014 7:15:11 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: poetry and science 
Importance: High 
okay. you let me know when you can talk. 
And I hadn't added to this list neuroscience--where Emily Dickinson has it nailed-- and maybe this would be the 
right poem for your group. Notice how many metaphors are operating simultaneously here 
The Brain, within its Groove 
Runs evenly--and true--
But let a Splinter swerve--
'Twere easier for You--
To put a Current back--
When Floods have slit the Hills--
And scooped a Turnpike for Themselves--
And trodden out the Mills--
I get to New York Thursday am or perhaps tomorrow night...haven't decided quite yet which. Always 
prefer face to face if you have time 
lisa 
On Tue, Dec 2, 2014 at 1:29 PM, Lisa New < 
Dear Jeffrey, 
wrote: 
Apropos of our conversation of a few minutes ago, This proposal went to someone I thought was 
interested in the environment and science but who seems, in fact, far more interested in supporting TV 
on a broad range of topics. 
500,000 would fund this initiative as the second HGSE course (after Poetry of the City) and could begin 
immediately, Jan 1.. I'd be thrilled to include other scientists you name, perhaps taping the group in a 
session on metaphor at the edges of fields. 
INote that taped sessions already include economics, marine biology, astronomy, evolutionary biology, 
zoology, physics and computer science. Richard Dawkins, Walter Isaacson, David Mossberg and David 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025514 
Malan have all said yes to tapings. Footage for all the others is already shot and ready for post 
production. 
I am having a drink with Dean of Ed School today and can explore this with him among other topics 
Lisa 
Poetry in America for Teachers II: The Poetry of Earth, Sea, and Sky 
Combining study of poetry with study of science, environment and the visual arts. Materials include 
hundreds archival images and live footage shot in 
Cape Cod, Nantucket, Vermont, New York, Connecticut, Jamaica, Aspen, California, Papua New Guinea 
including oceans, ponds, marshes, birds, fish mountains, coral reefs, forests as well in some major collections 
(HMNH etc) 
with author Michael Pollan on Joel Barlow (and colonial agriculture) 
with economist Lawrence Summers on Oliver Wendell Holmes, (and technology and "one hoss shay" 
depreciation) 
with Harvard students at the Nantucket Whaling Museum and with , John Steele, editor of the science 
magazine, Nautlilus, on Lowell and Melville 
with Vice President Al Gore on Ralph Waldo Emerson ,and, with eco-critic Lawrence Buell (with footage 
taped on the Concord River as well as in Harvard's Houghton Rare Book Library ) 
with a dozen Harvard students and Boston area school teachers on Emily Dickinson's "skies" (shot at Emily 
Dickinson's home in Amherst Massachusetts) and with ED 's original mss. at Harvard University 
with Jane Pickering In Harvard's Museum of Natural History on Marianne Moore, zoology and science 
museums 
with Martin Espada and other New Yorkers (footage shot on the East River) on Whitman and urban 
greenspace and with Susan Howe on Stevens and parks 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025515 
with Richard Dawkins on Frost, evolution and probability and with Jay Parini, Frost biographer, in Frost's 
cabin on "The Road not Taken". 
with Director of the College Board (and writer of the Common Core Standards) , David Coleman on Robert 
Frost's "Birches" (filmed in a birch grove) 
with Peter Galison on Einstein and Modernism (taped in the Harvard Scientific Instruments collection in the 
Harvard Science Center) and with author Walter Isaacson on Einstein and Modernism (Fogg Museum) 
with Ray Dalio on Marianne Moore( in Rajah Ampat with Conservation International); and with Jane 
Pickering, Head of the Harvard Natural History Museum, ( filmed in the Harvard Museum of Natural History) 
with Stefan Weiss, Walt Mossberg and David Malan on coding, computer language and L-A-N-G-U-A-G-E 
poetry 
Elisa New 
Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature 
Harvard University 
148 Barker Center 
12 Quincy Street 
Cambridge, MA 
02138 
Elisa New 
Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature 
Harvard University 
148 Barker Center 
12 Quincy Street 
Cambridge, MA 
02138 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025516 
