e Reader File Edit View Window Help 
iFTL , 
1 * 
I 
7 
Rifkin - Zero Marginal Cost Society Ch 1, 12, 13.pdf 
/ 48 
NM 
100% H 
I I 
14-4:41 
10096 CI. Mon 2:46 PM Q 
Powerful industry leaders often strive to restrict entry of new en-
terprises and innovations. But slowing down or stopping new, more 
productive technologies to protect prior capital investments creates a 
positive-feedback loop by preventing capital from investing in profitable 
new opportunities. If capital can't migrate to new profitable investments, 
the economy goes into a protracted stall. 
Lange described the struggle that pits capitalist against capitalist in 
stark terms. He writes: 
The stability of the capitalist system is shaken by the alternation of at-
tempts to stop economic progress in order to protect old investments and 
tremendous collapses when those attempts fail.' 
Tools Sign Comn 
Attempts to block economic progress invariably fail because new en-
trepreneurs are continually roaming the edges of the system in search of 
innovations that increase productivity and reduce costs, allowing them to 
win over consumers with cheaper prices than those of their competitors. 
The race Lange outlines is relentless over the long run, with proiluctiv-
ity continually pushing costs and prices down, forcing profit margins to 
shrink. 
While most economists today would look at an era of nearly free 
goods and services with a sense of foreboding, a few earlier economists 
expressed a guarded enthusiasm over the prospect. Keynes, the venerable 
twentieth-century economist whose economic theories still hold consider-
able weight, penned a small essay in 1930 entitled "Economic Possibilities 
for Our Grandchildren," which appeared as millions of Americans were 
beginning to sense that the sudden economic downturn of 1929 was in fact 
the beginning of a long plunge to the bottom. 
Keynes observed that new technologies were advancing productivity 
and reducing the cost of goods and services at an unprecedented rate. They 
were also dramatically reducing the amount of human labor needed to 
mind from a preoccupation with strictly pecuniary interests to focus more 
on the "arts for life" and the quest for transcendence. 
Both Lange and Keynes foresaw, back in the 1930s, the schizophrenia 
that lies at the nucleus of the capitalist system: the inherent entrepreneurial 
dynamism of competitive markets that drives productivity up and mar-
ginal costs down. Economists have long understood that the most efficient 
economy is one in which consumers pay only for the marginal cost of the 
goods they purchase. But if consumers pay only for the marginal cost and 
those costs continue to race toward zero, businesses would nor be able to 
ensure a return on their investment and sufficient profit to satisfy their 
shareholders. That being the case, market leaders would attempt to gain 
market dominance to ensure a monopoly hold so they could impose prices 
higher than the marginal cost of the products they're selling, thus prevent-
ing the invisible hand from hurrying the market along to the most efficient 
economy of near zero marginal cost and the prospect of nearly free goods 
and services. This catch-22 is the inherent contradiction that underlies 
capitalist theory and practice. 
Eighty years after Lange and Keynes made their observations, con-
temporary economists are once again peering into the contradictory work-
ings of the capitalist system, unsure of how to make the market economy 
function without self-destructing in the wake of new technologies that are 
speeding society into a near zero marginal cost eL. 
Lawrence Summers, U.S. secretary of the treasury during President 
Bill Clinton's administration and former president of Harvard University, 
and J. Bradford DeLong, a professor of economics at the University of Cal-
ifornia, Berkeley, revisited the capitalist dilemma in a joint paper delivered 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City's symposium, "Economic Pol-
icy for the Information Economy," in August 2001. This time, there was 
much more at stake as the new information technologies and the incipient 
Internet communication revolution were threatening to take the capitalist 
system to a near zero marginal cost reality in the coming decades, 
