From: Jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gma il.com] 
Sent: 7/17/2016 1:35:22 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: the story 
Importance: High 
1. all the girls discussed in the press , came to the house , to give erotic massages. each and every girl , each 
time, came in exchange for money. many of the girls interviewed were in their mid twenties early thirties, no 
searching for underage girls. many of the girls worked in the local massage parlors. ( advertised everyday in 
the palm beach papers. , referred in the local vernacular to " jack shacks". 5 within 4 miles of the intl airpot. 
) or strip clubs.. ( both of the girls bringing the cvra case ). 
2. There have been discussios of a house full of underage photos. the video taken by the police contradict that 
in its entirety 
3 there have been discsussion about hidden video cameras, they were put there with the HELP of the local 
Police , in order to catch a thief money had been going missing , and the police cam , set up cameras, and 
one night hid in the bushes hoping to catch the thief in the act. It turned out to be the houseman. who 
confessed, . there were never any hidden cameras anywhere besides the garage and the camera in the living 
room focused on the place where money was kept 
4. The police conducted a search, and found adult sextoys, I am an adult, they made a point to say that there 
was a purple plastic sex toy„ but later without correcting their earliler assertion disconver it was nothing but a 
salad fork 
5. The girl whose parents initiated the investigation, told the police in a sworn statment that she had lied about 
her age to gain access to the house. she said she tried her best to appear over 18 , as she wanted to be invited 
back, there was not trolling for anyone underage. 
6. many if not most of the girls , invited their friends , best friends after they had left. hardly a normal result 
if there had been any coercion or anytrhing untoward. 
7, many of the girls had their boyfirends wait downstairs, or in some instances their parents. not one 
time did anyone ever complain of mistreatment , 
8 there was never ever any drugs , alcolhol, threats, coercion 
9 the local sex crimes prosecutor, lana belahovilc , interviewed the girls herself , and concluded in her own 
words dire wer no real victims here. just local prostituion. she offer a 5 year probation sentence with no 
registration. . Alan dershowitwz told me I shouldnt take it. it was too dangerous. not telling me that my 
probation would have been moved to my home in the virigin islands. then the prosecutors to be 
fair presented their information to a grand jury, the ONLY time a jury would see any of the claims, the result 
was a charge of soliction of prostituion . a crime with a mandatory release after taking a harms of prostiution 
course. This was a grand jury determination. 
10. local. no transportation across state lines, contrary to outragious and hbeious 
allegations, no trafficking. it is a disservice to women who are trafficked to compare a woman brought into 
the country , tied to a bed, given drugs to have sex with strangers for money that she doesnt get. . to girsl who 
took a taxi to my house, had food snacks and got paid, then went shopping with her friedns and back home. 
11/ the fbi decided to pursue a highly unusual case. their position was that my secretary , not ire, called girls 
on the telephone and asked them if they would like to work. . many times as the message pads reveall the 
girls called over and over again askking to work, hardly coercion ( the latest 
cases REQURE coercion, which states it is NOT for making appts ....... 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030245 
12 THe fbi, threatend many statutes if i would not plead guilty to a state crime, they suggested that a cell 
phone was a means of interstae commerce ( similar to perverts who troll the intern& , in searhc of underage 
girsl , and in each and every one of those cases the govt is required to confirm , and they do,that the person 
KNEW or that the person on the other end of the computer was underage. . all stings hve the police stinger ask 
dont you know that i am 14, 13 etc. there was never any such conversation with anyone. 
13. the govt said that traveling to my homeof 15 year in florida, ccould be considered traveling for thepurpsoe 
of underage sex. never before anyone not crossing state lines with a person , charged with a crimge for going 
home 
14. the gov said that they would not bring an indictment if i plead guilty to being a pimp.( a crime in florida 
that REQUIRES the pimpt to earh money off the the girls , ( regster as a sex offender ) and pay a list of girls 
whose names they would provide me only AF l'ER the fact. and AF l'ER i was in jail. I would have to agree 
NOT to contest any claim by anyone they put on the list . when I attempted to do so , as i never met some of 
the people on the list. I reived a letter stating that any attempt to question their story would result in a breech of 
my agreeernnt. 
15. If I had tto do it over I hope i would have shown much better judgement as many of the girls came from 
underprivleged familys and i was unaware of the potential for halm. 
16. , has said she was a sex slave. . she has now admited she lied about her age. she was 
never 15. she has changed th story on my wikipieia page , but no press statment. she said that clinton was on 
the island, not true, she said ghilsane flew him in a black helipcopter, I did not have a black heli and she 
never flew him, she said that al gore and wife were on the isalnd never happened, she has accused a prime 
minisnter a senator a prinve. a sceintist, alan dershowitz. a many in his seventies with his wife in 
attendance. sex on a plane with secret service and dimplanic protection people looking the other way. . she 
had an arrest warmat for her as she stole money from the restaurnat at which she worked, she had before made 
clainds of sexual assualts but the prosecutro said she had no creidbility , 1 emiails , suggst 
adding alan dershowitz to her complaint. emails suggest•might have comminted pergury 
. she has said that the house had many photos of underage girls , a recent press realease clearly shows 
another lie. 
17, the press has labled me a pedophile a disgusting term for men atracted to pre pubcesnet girsl. . these 
girls worked in a strip club. . Not one person ever testified that they were asked to bring underage girls , in 
fact the opposite. all said they were told on one under 18. fbi foia request . confirms 
wealth was not used as an advantage, the local police chief said this case was bigger than rush limbaugh, . no 
one had ever faced a federal charge for having prostituies in their own house. no violence coercion. etc 
191 the police released to the press, the raw statements of the girls. not one was ever questioned by opposing 
counsel. . 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030246 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030247 
