From: Intelligence Squared_____________________________________ 
Sent: 6/14/2019 6:32:20 AM 
To: jeevacation@gmail.com 
Subject: John Humphrys: The Terrier of Today, in conversation with Justin Webb 
John Humphrys: The Terrier of Today, in conversation with Justin Webb 
View in browser 
7-, 
_Rye. 
FAT-Z-1 
John Humphrys: 
The Terrier of Today 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030445 
ADD TO CALENDAR 
WEDNESDAY 9TH OCTOBER, 7PM 
EMMANUEL CENTRE 
Featuring John Humphrys and Justin Webb 
BUY TICKETS 
'I'm not sure I'd like me if I was listening to me.' — John Humphrys 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030446 
John Humphrys is the Radio 4 Today programme presenter, whose forensic and sometimes 
aggressive interviews with figures in authority inspire love and loathing in equal measure. The 
Observer's television critic once wrote that if he ever found himself sitting next to Hum phrys at a 
dinner party he would probably drive a fork through his hand. The Tory politician Jonathan 
Aitken accused him of 'poisoning the well of democratic debate', a comment which prompted an 
outburst of support for Humphrys, with the Daily Mail describing him as one of the most brilliant 
journalists in the country'. 
This autumn, as Humphrys steps down after 32 years at Today and publishes a long-awaited 
memoir, he comes to the Intelligence Squared stage to give an exclusive, behind-the-scenes 
account of his extraordinary career. 
Turning the tables on Humphrys and pitching the questions will be his Today colleague Justin 
Webb. Humphrys will recount the momentous episodes of his career, such as his interview with 
BBC correspondent Andrew Gilligan in 2003. Gilligan claimed that the government had 
deliberately 'sexed up' the dossier on the threat posed by Saddam Hussein in order to justify 
the Iraq War. A chain of events ensued, including the suicide of the dossier's source, Dr David 
Kelly, severe damage to Tony Blair's reputation and the Hutton and Chiloot inquiries into the 
war. And then there was the time Humphrys helped to get his own boss fired. His tough 
interview with the BBC Director General George Entwistle, days after the BBC had made false 
child abuse allegations against Lord McAlpine, lead to Entwistle's resignation after a mere 53 
days in the job. 
Join us on October 9 and hear Humphrys' previously untold stories about politicians, celebrities 
and the BBC, and give his trenchant views on the role of the media in politics and the health of 
our political system. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030447 
John Humphrys 
Award-winning journalist who has been one of the presenters of 
BBC Radio 4's flagship news and current affairs programme Today 
since January 1987. During his career with the BBC, he has also 
worked as a foreign correspondent in both America and Africa, as 
well as being a diplomatic correspondent and presenter of the Nine 
O'Clock News. He has presented Panorama, fronts On the Ropes 
on Radio 4 and presents Mastermind on BBC Two. His has written 
two books on the English language, Lost For Words: The Mangling 
and Manipulating of the English Language and Beyond Words: 
How Language Reveals the Way We Live Now. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030448 
Justin Webb 
One of the presenters of Radio 4's Today programme. He was the 
BBC's North America Editor for 8 years, covering the 9/11 attacks 
and the election of President Obama. He writes regularly for the 
Radio Times and reviews books for the Sunday Times. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030449 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030450 
The Daily: The Rise of Nationalism Across the Globe 
In this week's podcast, we hosted a live conversation from "The Daily", The New York 
Times' flagship podcast. In an event in partnership with The New York Times, we were 
joined by the podcast's host Michael Barbaro, as well as Berlin Bureau Chief Katrin 
Bennhold, London-based International Correspondent Ellen Barry, Executive Producer 
Theo Balcomb and Producer Clare Toeniskoetter for a conversation about the 
implications of the nationalist undercurrent currently sweeping across Europe. 
LISTEN NOW 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030451 
Share 
Tweet 
Forward 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030452 
Intelligence Squared is proudly supported by its media partner: 
This email was sent to jeevacationagmail.com  
why did I get this? unsubscribe from this list update subscription preferences  
Intelligence Squared (UK) Ltd • Newcombe House • 45 Notting Hill Gate, London W11 3LQ • United Kingdom 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030453 
