From: Michael Wolff < 
Sent: Friday, January 16, 2015 2:54 PM 
To: jeffrey E. 
Subject: Re: thoughts 
> 
Importance: High 
I don't think I would put her out there. It probably seems too self-serving. But let's discuss. I have an idea about 
how to best use. Do you have time to continue our conversation post-3:00 today or tomorrow? 
On Fri, Jan 16, 2015 at 4:36 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation(&,gmail.com> wrote: 
Out of respect and love for my former girlfrend I have tried to keep her out of my mess. she was never 
questioned, or subpeonaed. her name never surfaced.. I thought it right as a friend to protect her 
name. however during the entire _ time she was my serious girlfriend. She traveled with me 
almost everywhere, each house, she is on the plane many many times. she knew and remembers She 
never saw anything that Mi=claims. She can confirm 1. I was never alone at the house. staff, friends 
etc. , no girl ever complained, not once. 2. jane doe 1 and 2 , were local strippers, that would call all the time 
asking if they could do massages. . . they left message after message. 3. We had a serious love relationship, I 
had promised her not to involve her in my story as it was so sordid. . she was 22 - 24 at the time. . 4 she has 
photos after photos showing we were together. . 5 she knows clinton was never on the island. 6 she knows no 
sex with steven hawking, she knows no sex with ehud as he was also never on the island. 6 she is 38 years old 
now and presentable. . 7 She woudl acknowledge that these girls asked to bring their friends . many of their 
best friends sat in the kitchen while they gave massages outside on the terrace. ( no sex J. . they certainly 
looked over age. nevr heard anyone say otherwise. , Jeffrey never asked for underage, that is crazy, . . 8 . 
answered the phones. served coffee. . there were many massage people , men women, aged up to 
60. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation(&,gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
1 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022667 
