CHAPTER 20 
Jeffrey Epstein: 1953-1969 
Jeffrey Epstein's mother, Paula, was the daughter of Max and 
Lena Stolofsky, who arrived in the United States as Lithua-
nian refugees. Relatives on that side of the family who remained 
in the old country would all perish in the course of Adolf Hitler's 
campaign to exterminate European Jewry. 
Epstein's father, Seymour, was a manual laborer, like his 
father before him. Seymour's parents, Julius and Bessie Epstein, 
had emigrated from Russia and landed in Brooklyn, both of them 
with eighth-grade educations. They lived in Crown Heights, 
where Julius owned a house-wrecking company. 
Before landing a job with the city, Seymour had worked with 
his father. 
They were kind people, says Epstein's childhood friend Gary 
Grossberg. Seymour was there for him at a difficult time, Gross-
berg says. When Grossberg was young, his parents divorced, and 
89 
JAMES PATTERSON 
his father moved out of Brooklyn. Seymour and Paula took Gary 
in. Often they referred to him as their third son. "Paula was a 
wonderful mother and homemaker," Grossberg remembers, 
"despite the fact that she had a full-time job." 
Epstein, as a kid, was "chubby, with curly hair and a high, 
`hee-hee' kind of laugh," Beverly Donatelli recalls.* Beverly was 
two years older than Epstein, but thanks to his precocious tal-
ents, which allowed him to skip two grades, they graduated from 
Brooklyn's Lafayette High School together, in 1969. 
"He was advanced," Beverly remembers. "He tutored my girl-
friend and myself in the summer. He taught me geometry in just 
two months." 
When Beverly thinks of Epstein now, she recalls gentler times—
long strolls down the Coney Island boardwalk, roller-coaster rides, 
stolen kisses. "That last year in school, I think he kind of loved me," 
she says. "One night on the beach he kissed me. In fact, our history 
teacher made up a mock wedding invitation for Jeffrey and myself 
to show to the class. That seems pretty inappropriate now. But back 
t 
then, we all thought it was funny. Jews and the Italians, that was 
pretty much who went to Lafayette High School. They didn't social-
ize that much. And though my mother was crazy about him, she 
told me Jewish boys don't marry Italians." 
Through the haze of several decades, Beverly remembers 
Epstein as a kindhearted boy and something of a prodigy—a 
gifted young pianist as well as a math whiz. 
"I was talking to my girlfriends the other day," she says. 
* Beverly Donatelli's name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been 
changed. 
"There is nothing but r 
the reason I went to col 
Beverly lost contact 
after Epstein's fiftieth bi 
"He had a photo o 
noticed it at his birth& 
bet she has a big ass no. 
his home on 71st Stree 
the same Jeffrey. A gent 
The two never did s 
pathizes with her high 
"I feel so bad for I-
liked him." 
Gary Grossberg was a y( 
class as Epstein's kid 
remains very friendly, t: 
frey in some time. Both 
"Jeffrey's a brilliant 
generous." 
Grossberg says he's 
Florida." As he sees it, 
was hanging around wit 
Grossberg wonders, 
cial contributed to his e, 
"He was a diamond it 
"People recognized Jeffr( 
gift for recognizing oppc 
FILTHY RICH 
ERSON 
'Seymour and Paula took Gary 
their third son. "Paula was a 
iker," Grossberg remembers, 
[-time job." 
y, with curly hair and a high, 
Donate11i recalls.* Beverly was 
t thanks to his precocious tal-
vo grades, they graduated from 
together, in 1969. 
:members. "He tutored my girl-
He taught me geometry in just 
a now, she recalls gentler times — 
d boardwalk, roller-coaster rides, 
iool, I think he kind of loved me," 
. he kissed me. In fact, our history 
g invitation for Jeffrey and myself 
)retty inappropriate now. But back 
Ly. Jews and the Italians, that was 
.te High School. They didn't social-
mother was crazy about him, she 
Italians." 
ral decades, Beverly remembers 
and something of a prodigy—a 
a math whiz. 
friends the other day," she says. 
fltifying details, and dialogue have been 
90 
"There is nothing but nice we can say about him. He is actually 
the reason I went to college." 
Beverly lost contact with Epstein over the years. But not long 
after Epstein's fiftieth birthday, she got a call out of the blue. 
"He had a photo of us on the beach," she says. "A friend 
noticed it at his birthday party. And Jeffrey said to the friend: 'I 
bet she has a big ass now.' So Jeffrey called me and invited me to 
his home on 71st Street. We hung out. We reminisced. He was 
the same Jeffrey. A gentleman." 
The two never did speak again, but to this day Beverly sym-
pathizes with her high school sweetheart. 
"I feel so bad for him," Beverly says. "That's how much I 
liked him." 
Gary Grossberg was a year younger than Epstein and in the same 
class as Epstein's kid brother, Mark, with whom Grossberg 
remains very friendly, though he hasn't seen or spoken with Jef-
frey in some time. Both brothers are good people, he says. 
"Jeffrey's a brilliant and good person. He is also incredibly 
generous." 
Grossberg says he's talked to Epstein about "the problem in 
Florida." As he sees it, Epstein "got carried away ... perhaps he 
was hanging around with the wrong people." 
Grossberg wonders, too, if the things that made Epstein spe-
cial contributed to his eventual fall from grace. 
"He was a diamond in the rough, you see," Grossberg explains. 
"People recognized Jeffrey's brilliance very early on. But he had a 
gift for recognizing opportunities very quickly. He started buying 
91 
JAMES PATTERSON 
properties in Manhattan, including 301 East 66th Street. He 
asked his brother—did Mark want to join him? He did." 
Grossberg himself has had his ups and downs. At one point, 
he worked in a building owned by the Epstein brothers. There, 
he says, a porter told him a story about a little-known side of Jef-
frey Epstein. The porter's wife, who lived in South America, des-
perately needed an organ transplant. Epstein paid for the 
operation. 
"That's just typical," Grossberg says. "That's who he always 
was, long as I knew him." 
"Lafayette was a city school," says another old classmate, James 
Rosen. "It was functional. There was nothing special about it." 
James Rosen is a retired postal worker. He lives in South 
Florida now, but, like Jeffrey Epstein, he'd grown up in Sea Gate. 
"There was a lot of volatility at Lafayette," Rosen recalls. "It 
was a blue-collar area that was, at one time, 90 percent Italian. 
Then a small amount of Jews moved in, and there was 
anti-Semitism. The Italians didn't want the Jews to be there." 
Black families were moving in, too, he remembers, and His-
panic ones. But he says most of the animosity was aimed at Jews. 
"There were fights in the schools. They thought we were 
going to take over." 
But Epstein seems to have made friends easily. Even then, his 
buddies—who called him Eppy— could see he was special. 
While they hung out on the beach, Epstein played the piano. Did 
homework. Worked on his prized stamp collection. 
Innocent times. 
92 
Jeffrey Epstein: 1.0 
It's the height of ti 
lege administratol 
long hair collide I 
go in for any of that. 
math classes at Coop 
Village where Abraha 
Thanks to a gene) 
though the applicatio 
Epstein sails thro. 
At Harvard or Yal 
tawks like the Brookly 
than any Ivy League: 
aside from his prodig 
starts to make money 
he leaves Cooper Un 
ERSON 
rig 301 East 66th Street. He 
to join him? He did." 
ups and downs. At one point, 
y the Epstein brothers. There, 
bout a little-known side of Jef-
.o lived in South America, des-
splant. Epstein paid for the 
:g says. "That's who he always 
rs another old classmate, James 
was nothing special about it." 
,stal worker. He lives in South 
tein, he'd grown up in Sea Gate. 
at Lafayette," Rosen recalls. "It 
at one time, 90 percent Italian. 
vs moved in, and there was 
et want the Jews to be there." 
in, too, he remembers, and His-
the animosity was aimed at Jews. 
schools. They thought we were 
lade friends easily. Even then, his 
Ty— could see he was special. 
ich, Epstein played the piano. Did 
:ed stamp collection. 
92 
CHAPTER 21 
Jeffrey Epstein: 1969-1976 
It's the height of the Vietnam War. Students collide with col-
lege administrators. Hippies collide with hard hats. Kids with 
long hair collide with their parents. Jeffrey Epstein does not 
go in for any of that. At the age of sixteen, he's taking advanced 
math classes at Cooper Union, an august institution in the East 
Village where Abraham Lincoln once spoke. 
Thanks to a generous endowment, the school is tuition-free, 
though the application process is famously rigorous. 
Epstein sails through it. 
At Harvard or Yale, his accent would give him away. Epstein 
tawks like the Brooklyn boy he is. But Cooper Union is more open 
than any Ivy League school. It's full of boys from Brooklyn, and, 
aside from his prodigious intellect, Epstein doesn't stand out. He 
starts to make money by tutoring his fellow students. And in 1971, 
he leaves Cooper Union for the greener pastures of New York 
93 
JAMES PATTERSON 
University of Missot; 
1949. That same yea 
of rejections at whiti 
a Jew—landed a job 
clerk. 
By 1958, he'd be, 
Greenberg smoked c 
and always dressed : 
gruff, cheap, and, at 
bridge player, a hun 
loyal leader of the tf 
team made up most 
outer boroughs. 
Greenberg didn't 
What he cared abou. 
vated risk takers, ur 
(and especially low) 
were poor, smart, an 
Jeffrey Epstein, ti 
perfectly. 
University, located a few blocks away. There, at the Courant Institute 
of Mathematical Sciences, he studies the mathematical physiology of 
the heart. But he never graduates from any college or university. 
By 1973, Epstein is teaching at the Dalton School, a prestigious 
private school on the Upper East Side. Like Tavern on the Green, 
Grand Central Terminal, and the Century Association, Dalton is 
a New York institution—an elite K-12 rocket ship built for the 
children of New York's ruling classes. 
It's not at all clear how Epstein, who has no college degree, 
ends up there. 
And yet here he is, barely out of his teens and already a teacher of 
math and physics. "Go forth unafraid" is the Dalton School's credo. 
It's a philosophy Epstein has adopted. For him, Dalton's an 
excellent launching pad. 
It's nothing like Lafayette High School. The kids he's teach-
ing are rich—very rich. Their parents are extremely well con-
nected. And despite Epstein's outer-borough accent, he's careful 
in his presentation. At any given moment, he's one parent-teacher 
conference away from a whole new world of possibilities. 
Because Dalton has an excellent student-to-teacher ratio, the 
parents get to know Epstein quite well. Before long, a Wall Street 
macher named Alan "Ace" Greenberg has taken a special shine to 
the young man who's been tutoring his son Ted. 
Like Epstein, Ace Greenberg came from a humble background. 
The son of an Oklahoma City shopkeeper, he won a football 
scholarship to the University of Oklahoma, transferred to the 
94 • 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
r. There, at the Courant Institute 
the mathematical physiology of 
m any college or university. 
Le Dalton School, a prestigious 
Ade. Like Tavern on the Green, 
Century Association, Dalton is 
K-12 rocket ship built for the 
3ses. 
In, who has no college degree, 
his teens and already a teacher of 
aid" is the Dalton School's credo. 
; adopted. For him, Dalton's an 
Lgh School. The kids he's teach-
?arents are extremely well con-
'ter-borough accent, he's careful 
moment, he's one parent-teacher 
ew world of possibilities. 
lent student-to-teacher ratio, the 
te well. Before long, a Wall Street 
iberg has taken a special shine to 
ring his son Ted. 
.me from a humble background. 
ity shopkeeper, he won a football 
of Oklahoma, transferred to the 
94 
University of Missouri following a back injury, and graduated in 
1949. That same year, he moved to New York and, after a series 
of rejections at white-shoe firms—places that never would hire 
a Jew—landed a job at Bear Stearns, earning $32.50 a week as a 
clerk. 
By 1958, he'd been made a full partner. Built like a pit bull, 
Greenberg smoked cigars, performed coin tricks for his friends, 
and always dressed in a bow tie. He was an all-elbows trader — 
gruff, cheap, and, above all, impatient. He was also a champion 
bridge player, a hunter of big game in Africa, and the firm but 
loyal leader of the team he'd built at Bear Stearns—an unusual 
team made up mostly of men who'd grown up in New York's 
outer boroughs. 
Greenberg didn't care about MBAs or Ivy League diplomas. 
What he cared about was raw talent and drive. Greenberg culti-
vated risk takers, unconventional thinkers, and he looked high 
(and especially low) for his "PSDs": men who, in his estimation, 
were poor, smart, and, above all, determined. 
Jeffrey Epstein, the Dalton School teacher, fit Greenberg's bill 
perfectly. 
95 
women to go with the 
brunettes, who would 
day. Now they found E 
Greenberg's gorgec 
If Greenberg knew 
Then again, Greenberl 
gan era, when deregu 
the horizon. But there 
ernment oversight on V 
traders had begun to 
of the age of corporate 
out for him, Epstein 
ing his weight arounc 
numbers earned him 
where he worked on e) 
a select group of Be 
within the elite—inch 
In the spring of 19 
St. Joe Minerals Cori 
share, or close to thr( 
whole offer amounted 
But St. Joe's execut 
company. In a press n 
ited and dismissed it a: 
SEC decided to invesq 
There were allegatic 
Bear Stearns's employe 
Epstein got called 
wrongdoing. 
But, as it turned ou 
CHAPTER 22 
Jeffrey Epstein: 1976-1981 
According to several published reports, it was Ace Green-
berg's son, Ted, who introduced Epstein to Greenberg. 
But other sources say Greenberg's daughter, Lynne, was 
dating Epstein at the time. According to them, that was how 
Epstein got into Bear Stearns—by charming a young and beau-
tiful woman and using her to advance his career. 
At Bear Stearns, Epstein started as an assistant to a trader on 
the American Stock Exchange and quickly worked up to junior 
partner, which meant that he was entitled to a share of the prof-
its. Still in his twenties, he was running with the bulls, kicking 
down any doors that stood in his way. 
The view from Ace Greenberg's office, high above Madison 
Avenue in midtown, was striking. At night, the whole city was lit 
up like a stage set. 
It was Epstein's city now, to win or to lose. And there were 
96 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 22 
Lshed reports, it was Ace Green-
troduced Epstein to Greenberg. 
reenberg's daughter, Lynne, was 
:cording to them, that was how 
-by charming a young and beau-
ivance his career. 
rted as an assistant to a trader on 
and quickly worked up to junior 
vas entitled to a share of the prof-
running with the bulls, kicking 
Us way. 
perg's office, high above Madison 
ng. At night, the whole city was lit 
to win or to lose. And there were 
96 
women to go with the prize. Tall, beautiful women, blondes and 
brunettes, who wouldn't have given a math teacher the time of 
day. Now they found Epstein exciting and handsome. 
Greenberg's gorgeous assistant was one of these women. 
If Greenberg knew about their affair, he did not seem to care. 
Then again, Greenberg had other things on his mind. The Rea-
gan era, when deregulation kicked into high gear, was still on 
the horizon. But there was already a decreasing amount of gov-
ernment oversight on Wall Street, and a new breed of bare-knuckle 
traders had begun to push every available limit. It was the start 
of the age of corporate raiders, and with Ace Greenberg looking 
out for him, Epstein had no reservations when it came to throw-
ing his weight around. The golden boy's gift for working the 
numbers earned him a place in the special-products division, 
where he worked on extremely complex tax-related problems for 
a select group of Bear Stearns's wealthiest clients—an elite 
within the elite—including Seagram CEO Edgar Bronfman. 
In the spring of 1981 Bronfman made a bid to take over the 
St. Joe Minerals Corporation. He offered forty-five dollars a 
share, or close to three times the value of St. Joe's stock. The 
whole offer amounted to $2.1 billion in cash. 
But St. Joe's executives didn't want to sell their 118-year-old 
company. In a press release, they called Seagram's bid unsolic-
ited and dismissed it as "grossly inadequate." At which point the 
SEC decided to investigate. 
There were allegations of insider trading. Within a few weeks, 
Bear Stearns's employees were called in to testify. 
Epstein got called in as well and categorically denied any 
wrongdoing. 
But, as it turned out, he'd just resigned from Bear Stearns. 
97 
Another one of Epst 
say, "Jeffrey Epstein left 
to strike out on his owi 
some questions remain 
given on April 1, 1981, 1 
and Robert Blackburn: 
Q: Sir, are you aware ti 
lating around your f 
leaving the firm? 
A: I'm aware that there 
Q: What rumors have y 
A: Nothing to do with ! 
Q: Can you relate what 
A: It was having to do 
As far as the investigat. 
don; the first time a seci 
no interest in Epstein's 
Q: 
CHAPTER 23 
Jeffrey Epstein: 1981' 
Epstein will always maintain that his resignation had noth-
ing to do with the SEC's investigation into Bear Stearns and 
Edgar Bronfman's ill-fated attempt to take over St. Joe's. 
But of course this raises the question: Why did Epstein resign 
from Bear Stearns? 
In his testimony before the SEC, Epstein says he was offended 
by the company's investigation of a twenty-thousand-dollar loan 
he'd made to his friend Warren Eisenstein. Epstein didn't know 
it at the time, he maintains, but if used to buy stock, such a loan 
might have been unethical, if not illegal. 
On top of that, questions about Epstein's expenses had come up. 
In the end, Bear Stearns fined him $2,500 —an embarrassing 
thing, to be sure. So much for making full partner anytime soon. 
But $2,500 is not $250,000 or even $25,000. Who'd give up a 
job as junior partner over that? 
98 
Mr. Epstein, did an 
substance that you s 
Minerals to the stal 
mission? Has anyoi 
directly or indireca 
pensation for this p; 
you from Bear Stee 
divulging informat 
Commission? 
FILTHY RICH 
Another one of Epstein's bosses, James "Jimmy" Cayne, will 
say, "Jeffrey Epstein left Bear of his own volition." Epstein wanted 
to strike out on his own, Cayne explains. But given the timing, 
some questions remain. Then there's Epstein's own testimony, 
given on April 1, 1981, before SEC investigators Jonathan Harris 
and Robert Blackburn: 
CHAPTER 23 
.n that his resignation had noth-
ivestigation into Bear Stearns and 
attempt to take over St. Joe's. 
question: Why did Epstein resign 
;EC, Epstein says he was offended 
of a twenty-thousand-dollar loan 
Eisenstein. Epstein didn't know 
t if used to buy stock, such a loan 
.ot illegal. 
out Epstein's expenses had come up. . 
ed him $2,500—an embarrassing 
laking full partner anytime soon. 
or even $25,000. Who'd give up a 
98 
Q: Sir, are you aware that certain rumors may have been circu-
lating around your firm in connection with your reasons for 
leaving the firm? 
A: I'm aware that there were many rumors. 
Q: What rumors have you heard? 
A: Nothing to do with St. Joe. 
Q: Can you relate what you heard? 
A: It was having to do with an illicit affair with a secretary. 
As far as the investigators are concerned, this is new informa-
tion; the first time a secretary's name has come up. But they have 
no interest in Epstein's office romance and press on: 
Q: Mr. Epstein, did anyone at Bear Stearns tell you in words or 
substance that you should not divulge anything about St. Joe 
Minerals to the staff of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission? Has anyone indicated to you in any way, either 
directly or indirectly, in words or substance, that your com-
pensation for this past year or any future monies coming to 
you from Bear Stearns will be contingent upon your not 
divulging information to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission? 
A: No. 
99 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Whatever the reasons for his resignation, Epstein still gets his 
annual bonus of around $100,000 (roughly $275,000 in today's 
dollars). The SEC never brings charges against him or any other 
Bear Stearns employee. And so the particulars of Epstein's depar-
ture get folded up into the greater mystery surrounding the man. 
Did Epstein crash the rocket ship that Ace Greenberg had given 
him to pilot? Or did he take it and fly it out, over the horizon? 
Either way, Epstein was out on his own. 
For him, the future would only get brighter. 
Ana ObregO 
na Obrt 
A
and wel 
ishe firsi 
roles—in the 
the star a run: 
Spanish Playbc 
As for forti 
Ana's fathe 
had serious pr 
bond-trading fi 
that it was goir 
off a subsidian 
And in May, DI 
owed on Treast 
had dragged do 
100 
TERSON 
signation, Epstein still gets his 
)0 (roughly $275,000 in today's 
harges against him or any other 
le particulars of Epstein's depar-
r mystery surrounding the man. 
Lp that Ace Greenberg had given 
-id fly it out, over the horizon? 
on his own. 
nly get brighter. 
Ana Obregin: 1982 
CHAPTER 24 
na ObregOn was one of the world's most beautiful women 
and well on her way to becoming famous as such when 
she first met Jeffrey Epstein. For her, there would be film 
roles—in the 1984 Bo Derek vehicle Bolero, Ana Obregon gives 
the star a run for her money—and appearances on the covers of 
Spanish Playboy and Spanish Vanity Fair. 
As for fortune, Obregon had that already. 
Ana's father was a very wealthy investor in Spain. But he also 
had serious problems. On June 15, 1982, a venerable stock- and 
bond-trading firm, the Drysdale Securities Corporation, announced 
that it was going out of business. Just that year, Drysdale had spun 
off a subsidiary operation called Drysdale Government Securities. 
And in May, DGS defaulted on $160 million in interest payments it 
owed on Treasury securities that it had borrowed. In doing so, DGS 
had dragged down its parent company. 
101 
100 
JAMES PATTERSON 
A very well-connected group of Spanish families—including 
members of Spain's royal family—had invested with Drysdale. 
Those investors stood to lose hundreds of millions of dollars. 
And Ana's father was one of those investors. 
What Ana wanted from Jeffrey Epstein was help in recover-
ing her father's money. 
"My father, he's done something stupid," she told him. 
A Spanish accent. A Brooklyn accent. They blended well 
together, and Ana was so very lovely. 
It turned out that Epstein was willing to help. 
"Something stupid, you see, with the money. The family 
money. Some—what do you call it? A scheme. He knew some of 
the people, but they lied to him. And now the money is gone." 
People who knew Jeffrey Epstein recall that he was bad off after 
his exit or ouster—whatever it was—from Bear Stearns. Mov-
ing from couch to couch for a while. Sleeping in his lawyer's 
offices before settling down in an apartment in the Solow Tower, 
on East 66th Street. 
It's a bit hard to believe. After all, Epstein left Bear Stearns 
with a good deal of money. But Epstein's lifestyle was expensive. 
He was a man on the make then, and Ana was still in her twen-
ties, plying her craft at the Actors Studio—the New York City 
theater institution that Marlon Brando, Robert De Niro, Jack 
Nicholson, and Jane Fonda had all been members of. 
Epstein told Ana that he'd formed a company, International 
Assets Group. 
To Ana, this sounded very impressive. In fact, IAG was a 
small operation that Epstein was running out of his apartment. 
102 
But if Ana had 
already see tIN 
maintain that 
who helped SE 
women he'd cu 
whole other kir 
Ones that n 
Andrew Levan( 
District of Nev% 
Force. He was a 
he was build in 
of Drysdale ex 
Epstein bringir 
Epstein came tc 
The woman 
Levander to 
lawyer named F 
himself, was as! 
hunt for the mo 
In effect, DC 
deadfalls. And I 
pany were less 
to the US attori 
had violated t1-. 
investments. 
This was w 
discretion— cat 
Ana Obregoi 
FILTHY RICH 
TERSON 
)f Spanish families _including 
—had invested with Drysdale. 
mdreds of millions of dollars. 
investors. 
ey Epstein was help in recover-
ing stupid," she told him. 
lyn accent. They blended well 
.vely. 
Is willing to help. 
e, with the money. The family 
Ll it? A scheme. He knew some of 
. And now the money is gone." 
in recall that he was bad off after 
it was—from Bear Stearns. Mov-
a while. Sleeping in his lawyer's 
an apartment in the Solow Tower, 
fter all, Epstein left Bear Stearns 
Epstein's lifestyle was expensive. 
Len, and Ana was still in her twen-
ctors Studio — the New York City 
on Brando, Robert De Niro, Jack 
td all been members of. 
formed a company, International 
!.ry impressive. In fact, IAG was a 
was running out of his apartment. 
102 
But if Ana had known that, would she have cared? She could 
already see that Epstein was brilliant. And though she would 
maintain that their friendship was strictly platonic, it was Ana 
who helped set Epstein on his course. Like other beautiful 
women he'd cultivate throughout his life, she opened doors to 
whole other kingdoms. 
Ones that no boys from Brooklyn had even dreamed of. 
Andrew Levander was an assistant US attorney in the Southern 
District of New York's Securities and Commodities Fraud Task 
Force. He was assigned to look into Drysdale's collapse. The case 
he was building would result in fraud convictions for a number 
of Drysdale executives, and even today, Levander remembers 
Epstein bringing "a very attractive woman" to meet him when 
Epstein came to him in the course of the investigation. 
The woman was Ana Obregon. 
Levander told Ana that he was already working the case. A 
lawyer named Robert Gold, who was a former federal prosecutor 
himself, was assisting. And now Epstein would join them in the 
hunt for the monies. 
In effect, DGS had built a series of labyrinths, rabbit holes, 
deadfalls. And even investors who'd lost vast sums to the com-
pany were less than forthcoming when it came to speaking 
to the US attorney. Several of the investors were foreign. Some 
had violated their own countries' laws pertaining to foreign 
investments. 
This was where Epstein—with his calm, confident air of 
discretion —came in. 
Ana ObregOn gave Epstein power of attorney over any monies 
103 
JAMES PATTERSON 
that he recovered. And though it took him three years, working 
with Robert Gold and the US attorney's office, Epstein finally did 
make his way to the center of DGS's maze and recover ObregOn's 
money. 
Most of it was being held in a bank in the Cayman Islands. 
Epstein's agreement with Ana prevents us from knowing 
how much he recovered—and how much he kept. But given the 
amounts at stake, Epstein likely earned millions— or more—
and to this day Ana ObregOn has nothing but appreciation for 
what Epstein accomplished. 
"I know he's had some problems," she says. "I don't want any-
thing to do with that." 
As for Epstein, he came out of the deal with a new modus 
operandi: from now on, he'd only work with the super rich. 
104 
Eva Andersson: 
iss Swed( 
zling whi 
the stage 
winner of this, the 
Seoul, South Korea 
"And now that 
see which five girls 
Barker pauses, 
tightens. There are I 
even if they're not ( 
"On this card 
received the highe5 
interview, the swin 
Eva feels the 
standing in betwee. 
TERSON 
took him three years, working 
irney's office, Epstein finally did 
;S's maze and recover ObregOn's 
. bank in the Cayman Islands. 
na prevents us from knowing 
low much he kept. But given the 
y earned millions—or more — 
Las nothing but appreciation for 
ems," she says. "I don't want any-
•t of the deal with a new modus Eva Andersson: July 8, 1980 
ly work with the super rich. 
.1, 
104 
CHAPTER 25 
Miss Sweden, Eva Birgitta Andersson, is wearing a daz-
zling white gown and sweating, ever so slightly, under 
the stage lights. But Bob Barker's about to announce the 
winner of this, the twenty-ninth Miss Universe pageant, held in 
Seoul, South Korea, and Eva's smile is as wide as the ocean. 
"And now that we know what Miss Universe will win, let's 
see which five girls are still in the running!" 
Barker pauses, like the expert broadcaster he is. Eva's chest 
tightens. There are twelve women onstage, all of them beautiful—
even if they're not quite as beautiful as Miss Sweden. 
"On this card are the names of five contestants who have 
received the highest total score from our judges in the personal 
interview, the swimsuit, and the evening gown competition." 
Eva feels the camera pan across the stage—pan across her, 
standing in between Miss Scotland and Miss Puerto Rico. 
105 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Why didn't any of 
always someone more 
corner. Perhaps none c 
urges. But he did have 2 
by his side through tl: 
with them. 
When he was thro 
say, they graduated up 
status of "lover" to "fric 
In his estimation, th 
The world was ful 
friendship seemed to 13( 
"As a result, they will be our five finalists. As I call each name, 
you will see a figure on your television screen. That is the total 
score received by the contestant since she became a semifinalist. 
But one thing I would point out to you: the point total is not 
necessarily a sign of who our eventual winner will be. Being first 
now is no guarantee of being first at the time of our judges' final 
ballot." 
Oh, get on with it, Miss Sweden thinks. And, as if by her com-
mand, Bob Barker does. 
"Now our five finalists. Good luck, girls! The first finalist is: 
Miss Sweden!" 
Eva's hands fly up to her face. The time it takes her to walk to 
the front of the stage is all the time she needs to stop herself from 
crying. 
For Eva, it's not meant to be. Miss USA, Shawn Weatherly, wins 
that year's competition—she'll go on to become a star on Bay-
watch. But Eva's future is secure nonetheless. After the pageant, 
she'll spend three years studying in Stockholm, finish med 
school at UCLA, and become a doctor of internal medicine. 
Along the way, she'll meet Jeffrey Epstein. 
People who knew them when they were a couple say that Eva 
wanted to marry Epstein. One friend says he considered it seri-
ously. In the end, Eva ended up with a man named Glenn Dubin, 
though she and Epstein remained very close. And if Eva was the 
proverbial "one who got away," Epstein ended up dating othe 
impressive women—world-class beauties—as he made .his way 
in the world. 
106 
FILTHY RICH 
TERSON 
ye finalists. As I call each name, 
:vision screen. That is the total 
;ince she became a semifinalist. 
t to you: the point total is not 
ntual winner will be. Being first 
;t at the time of our judges' final 
:n thinks. And, as if by her corn-
d luck, girls! The first finalist is: 
The time it takes her to walk to 
me she needs to stop herself from 
iiss USA, Shawn Weatherly, wins 
1 go on to become a star on Bay-
re nonetheless. After the pageant, 
lying in Stockholm, finish med 
doctor of internal medicine. 
Jeffrey Epstein. 
ten they were a couple say that Eva 
e friend says he considered it seri-
p with a man named Glenn Dubin, 
ined very close. And if Eva was the 
ty," Epstein ended up dating other 
lass beauties—as he made his way 
106 
Why didn't any of the romances take? Perhaps there was 
always someone more fabulous waiting for Epstein around the 
corner. Perhaps none of these women satisfied Epstein's deeper 
urges. But he did have a knack for keeping the women he'd dated 
by his side through thick and thin, long after he'd broken up 
with them. 
When he was through with his girlfriends, Epstein would 
say, they graduated up, not down, the ladder, moving from the 
status of "lover" to "friend." 
In his estimation, these shifts always constituted a promotion. 
The world was full of beautiful women. But for Epstein, 
friendship seemed to be a far more precious commodity. 
107 
Pay me fifty million c1( 
amount. 
At first Epstein did nc 
asked that the payment — 
escrow. If his strategy we 
bounced back to the client 
In the eighties, when 
much, much higher than 
50 percent, it was an ext] 
were other ways to make 
In 1982, Epstein sold his 
relatives, and others on an 
Michael Stroll, had run M 
company known for the 131 
Stroll put $450,000 int 
But in 1984, Michael 
repeated demands and r€ 
Epstein owed him, he got 
ment. Eventually he sued] 
ing 5440,000—the case 
Epstein told the judge tha 
ally the payment for a hop 
Like many cases invol 
of court, the terms of the f 
CHAPTER 26 
Jeffrey Epstein: 1984 
, 
ow did Jeffrey Epstein make all his money? 
Epstein would tell stories over the years about mon-
ies recovered from slippery characters. Sometimes, friends 
and former associates would say, he'd suggest he had ties to the 
government, giving listeners the impression that he was doing 
dangerous, glamorous work. 
Others said that what Epstein really did, at this stage in his 
career, was much more banal. According to them, Epstein spent 
most of his time coming up with creative new ways for the rich 
to avoid paying taxes. The commission for tax-avoidance deals 
was enormous, although the number of deals Epstein was involved 
with is a matter of conjecture, as is his record of successes and 
But Epstein's business model was evolving. He'd charge a fla 
failures. 
fee. No fancy math. No percentages. 
108 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 26 
lake all his money? 
tories over the years about mon-
ny characters. Sometimes, friends 
iy, he'd suggest he had ties to the 
rie impression that he was doing 
em n really did, at this stage in his 
According to them, Epstein spent 
ith creative new ways for the rich 
mmission for tax-avoidance deals 
Lmber of deals Epstein was involved 
, as is his record of successes and 
del was evolving. He'd charge a flat: 
itages. 
108 
Pay me fifty million dollars. Or pay the IRS seven times that 
amount. 
At first Epstein did not demand his fee up front. Instead he 
asked that the payment—often a substantial one—be put into 
escrow. If his strategy worked, he'd get paid. If not, the money 
bounced back to the client. 
In the eighties, when tax rates on the top 1 percent were 
much, much higher than they are today, topping out at close to 
50 percent, it was an extremely effective pitch. And then there 
were other ways to make money. 
In 1982, Epstein sold his wealthy friends, his friends' wealthy 
relatives, and others on an oil-drilling deal. One of the investors, 
Michael Stroll, had run Williams Electronics, an entertainment 
company known for the pinball machines it made. 
Stroll put $450,000 into the oil deal. 
But in 1984, Michael Stroll wanted his money back. Despite 
repeated demands and requests for a full accounting of what 
Epstein owed him, he got $10,000 back on his $450,000 invest-
ment. Eventually he sued Epstein in federal court for the remain-
ing $440,000—the case went on for a number of years. In court, 
Epstein told the judge that the $10,000 he'd returned was actu-
ally the payment for a horse Stroll had sold him. 
Like many cases involving Epstein, this one was settled out 
of court, the terms of the final agreement kept secret. 
109 
CHAPTER 27 
Steven Hoffenberg: July 10, 1987 
efore there was Bernie Madoff, there was Steven Hoffenberg. 
BIn 1987, Hoffenberg was the head of Towers Financial 
Corporation, a company that bought debts, such as unpaid 
medical bills, at a very steep discount while pressing the debtors 
to repay in full. He'd started the company fifteen years earlier 
with two thousand dollars and just a handful of employees. 
Thanks, in part, to a grueling work ethic, he'd turned that into a 
much bigger concern, with twelve hundred employees and stock 
that traded over the counter. But Hoffenberg still spent fifteen 
hours each day, six days a week, in his office. 
He wanted more. Hoffenberg was a Wall Street outsider. A 
Brooklyn boy. A college dropout, like Epstein. 
One thing Hoffenberg wanted was respect. The other was 
someone who was familiar with Wall Street's inner workings. Jef-
frey Epstein, who had traded options for Bear Stearns, fit the bill. 
110 
Hoffenberg began pa 
month for Epstein's exper 
The SEC had already 
ding with him out of cou 
securities. But Hoffenberg 
In the 1980s, several n 
the greenmailing of pub 
mailing means, in practio 
investors will start buyin 
vulnerable to takeover att 
utives at those companies 
It's risky, but very often tt 
profit. 
Yet another thing Hof 
American World Airways. 
its downward trajectory, t 
For Hoffenberg, the 
huge. 
According to Hoffenberg, 
over of Pan Am—a deal tl 
Steven Hoffenberg stil 
listening to him, one mus 
guilty to criminal conspit 
million swindle, a famili2 
Bernie Madoff case. 
Like so many others, 
without the necessary u: 
Spent at the office, he'd als 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 27 
1987 
[off, there was Steven Hoffenberg. 
ras the head of Towers Financial 
hat bought debts, such as unpaid 
scount while pressing the debtors 
the company fifteen years earlier 
nd just a handful of employees. 
work ethic, he'd turned that into a 
elve hundred employees and stock 
But Hoffenberg still spent fifteen 
in his office. 
)erg was a Wall Street outsider. A 
jut, like Epstein. 
anted was respect. The other was 
.th Wall Street's inner workings. jef-
Dptions for Bear Stearns, fit the bill. 
110 
Hoffenberg began paying twenty-five thousand dollars per 
month for Epstein's expertise as a consultant. 
The SEC had already looked into Hoffenberg's affairs, set-
tling with him out of court in a matter relating to unregistered 
securities. But Hoffenberg was dangling a very big prize. 
In the 1980s, several major financial players were involved in 
the greenmailing of publicly traded companies. What green-
mailing means, in practice, is that a brokerage house or group of 
investors will start buying shares in companies that seem to be 
vulnerable to takeover attempts. To ward off the attempts, exec-
utives at those companies will buy the shares back at a premium. 
It's risky, but very often the investors stand to make a handsome 
profit. 
Yet another thing Hoffenberg wanted was to take over Pan 
American World Airways. The iconic airline had already entered 
its downward trajectory, but it was still a giant. 
For Hoffenberg, the greenmailing profits could have been 
huge. 
According to Hoffenberg, Epstein handled the attempted take-
over of Pan Am—a deal that went sideways almost immediately. 
Steven Hoffenberg still has a lot to say on the subject. But in 
listening to him, one must bear in mind that in 1995, he pleaded 
guilty to criminal conspiracy and fraud charges involving a $460 
million swindle, a familiar scheme to anyone who followed the 
Bernie Madoff case. 
Like so many others, Hoffenberg had tried to fly very high 
Without the necessary updraft. And despite all the hours he 
,spent at the office, he'd also developed a taste for the high life. He 
111 
JAMES PATTERSON 
bought his own jet, a luxury yacht, and a Long Island mansion 
to go with his expensive Manhattan apartment. He'd also briefly 
owned a controlling interest in the New York Post. 
To cover his tracks, Hoffenberg had been taking money from 
investors and using it to pay previous investors. It was a classic 
Ponzi scheme—one of the biggest in history—and Hoffenberg 
ended up spending nineteen years in a federal prison. 
Why was Epstein not implicated in the case? All that Hoffen-
berg will say when asked is: "Ask Robert Gold." 
Another source suggests that Gold, the former federal prose-
cutor who had helped Epstein recover Ana Obregon's money, 
kept the US attorney away from Epstein until there were only a 
few weeks left before the statute of limitations ran out. 
As for Epstein himself, he would always deny any wrong-
doing. Despite his proximity to Hoffenberg, he managed to avoid 
the blast radius. 
1 
112 
Robert Meister: 1985 
Robert Meister, the vic( 
kerage and consulting 
in the mid-eighties, 
Palm Beach. Both men were 
the other looked familiar. Th 
and Meister filed the conven 
At that time, Les Wexner, w 
of Meister's insurance comp 
the people managing his mo 
Wexner was a billionaire 
were in a tangle. Maybe Epst 
would also be grateful for the 
there's evidence to suggest th 
his last Bear Stearns bonus—
recovered for Ana ObregOn—
T ER S ON 
ht, and a Long Island mansion 
tan apartment. He'd also briefly 
ie New York Post. 
rg had been taking money from 
vious investors. It was a classic 
.tst in history—and Hoffenberg 
Ts in a federal prison. 
tted in the case? All that Hoffen-
( Robert Gold." 
t Gold, the former federal prose-
recover Ana ObregOn's money, 
t Epstein until there were only a 
: of limitations ran out. 
would always deny any wrong-
Hoffenberg, he managed to avoid 
112 
CHAPTER 28 
Robert Meister: 1985 
obert Meister, the vice chairman of a giant insurance bro-
kerage and consulting firm called Aon, met Jeffrey Epstein 
in the mid-eighties, aboard a flight from New York to 
Palm Beach. Both men were flying first class. Each one thought 
the other looked familiar. They talked in the course of that flight, 
and Meister filed the conversation away, only to recall it in 1989. 
At that time, Les Wexner, who was Meister's friend and a client 
of Meister's insurance company, was complaining to him about 
the people managing his money. 
Wexner was a billionaire, but for all his wealth, his finances 
were in a tangle. Maybe Epstein could help. And perhaps Epstein 
would also be grateful for the introduction. Hard as it is to believe, 
there's evidence to suggest that Epstein really had spent the last of 
his last Bear Stearns bonus—along with his share of the money he'd 
recovered for Ana ObregOn—and was broke, again, at the time. 
113 
JAMES PATTERSON 
One estranged friend says that he had to loan Epstein money 
to pay the bill at Epstein's garage, which had seized Epstein's car 
for nonpayment. 
Another estranged friend says that Epstein didn't have two 
nickels to rub together. 
Diana Crane, a former model, says that Epstein always had 
first-class upgrades he would give to his friends so they didn't 
have to fly economy class. 
"No one knew where or how he got them," Crane recalls. 
"Sometimes they worked, and other times they didn't. I remem-
ber he saw a friend of mine wearing a Concorde jacket. He asked 
if he could borrow it for a day or so. My friend never got the 
jacket back. But Epstein would tell people he always flew on the 
Concorde — a total lie." 
But even if Epstein were flush, Les Wexner would have been 
a big fish to catch. 
From the get-go, Meister's wife, Wendy, had her suspicions 
about Epstein. About the way he presented himself and the way 
he worked himself into their inner circle. 
Before long, Wendy was calling Epstein the virus. 
But for Epstein, the Meisters weren't the point. Wexner was. 
And hard as it is to understand why the billionaire would 
associate with a man who'd worked with a Ponzi king like Steven 
Hoffenberg, it turned out that Wexner and Epstein would get 
along perfectly well. 
114 
Ghislaine Maxwell 
Robert Meister v 
Epstein, the bc 
social ladder. T 
heiress from the Unite 
of the world's most gla-
Maxwell was the : 
the most famous— ev 
Robert Maxwell, was 
'French Foreign Legioi 
had gone on to becon 
e'd become a media 
irth name was Jan L 
d in disgrace in 19 
e of his supersize y 
"The shtetl Solon 
ERSON 
he had to loan Epstein money 
which had seized Epstein's car 
3 that Epstein didn't have two 
, says that Epstein always had 
re to his friends so they didn't 
v he got them," Crane recalls. 
her times they didn't. I remem-
Lng a Concorde jacket. He asked 
or so. My friend never got the 
ell people he always flew on the 
h, Les Wexner would have been 
vife, Wendy, had her suspicions 
e presented himself and the way 
ner circle. 
.ing Epstein the virus. 
3 weren't the point. Wexner was. 
stand why the billionaire would 
:ked with a Ponzi king like Steven 
Wexner and Epstein would get 
114 
CHAPTER 29 
Ghislaine Maxwell: 1991 
Robert Meister was not the only friend who helped Jeffrey 
Epstein, the boy from Coney Island, on his way up the 
social ladder. There was also Ghislaine Maxwell, a wealthy 
heiress from the United Kingdom who'd retained her ties to some 
of the world's most glamorous and scandalous jet-setters. 
Maxwell was the youngest and most favored child of one of 
the most famous—even infamous —men in Europe. Her father, 
Robert Maxwell, was a Czech refugee who had fought in the 
French Foreign Legion and with the British in World War II and 
had gone on to become a member of Parliament. By the 1960s, 
he'd become a media baron. Born into a Hasidic family—his 
birth name was Jan Ludvik Hyman Binyamin Hoch—Maxwell 
died in disgrace in 1991 after falling or perhaps jumping off the 
side of his supersize yacht, the Lady Ghislaine. 
,, 
.. The shtetl Solotvyno, where I come from, it is no more," 
115 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Maxwell said a few months before his demise. "It was poor. It 
was Orthodox. And it was Jewish. We were very poor. We didn't 
have things that other people had. They had shoes, they had 
food, and we didn't. At the end of the war, I discovered the fate of 
my parents and my sisters and brothers, relatives, and neighbors. 
I don't know what went through their minds as they realized 
that they'd been tricked into a gas chamber." 
Maxwell's own death was followed by an international scan-
dal. It turned out that he'd stolen hundreds of millions of pounds 
from his companies' pension funds and used them to prop up his 
empire. Two of his sons were tried for conspiracy to commit 
fraud and ultimately exonerated. But Ghislaine, who had grown 
up in luxurious surroundings and counted the Duke of York, 
Prince Andrew, among her intimates, could not escape the dark 
shadow her father had cast. Looking to start fresh, she took the 
Concorde to New York City. 
At first, it seems, Maxwell and Epstein were lovers. "She was 
madly in love with Jeffrey," says a longtime friend of Ghislaine's. 
Then they became something more. Ghislaine took care of 
Epstein's travel arrangements. She managed his household and 
opened doors that very few Brooklyn-born Jewish boys could 
have passed through. According to lawsuits and witness testi-
mony, she also became one of several women who procured 
young girls for Epstein. 
She was not jealous, according to people who knew her back 
then. If anything, Ghislaine seemed to take pleasure in satisfy-
ing Epstein's needs. 
Ghislaine introduced Epstein to a fabulous world that the 
116 
Brooklyn boy knew no 
taught Epstein the differ' 
But despite—or was ii 
Epstein, she, too, grach 
According to Jane Doe 
filed in 2009 by a womat 
of the services Maxwell 
ment of underage worn. 
papers, Maxwell has ye. 
Virginia, with any othe 
with, or with any criminl 
In a 2016 answer to a c 
Maxwell called the allep 
The case of Nadia B. 
first noticed by Epstein, 
in the eyes of her mothet 
Bjorlin's Iranian-bon 
years ago about her famil 
and Epstein. Bjorlin's fat 
music, had died a year 
this made the girl a vuln 
"She was at school a. 
Michigan, when she met 
"My daughter was a 5 
little girl, not mature for 
thought she was nine or • 
"Epstein was a big dc 
her father had died, so St 
He said, 'Here's my numt 
"He kept saying, `Cor 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
-e his demise. "It was poor. It 
We were very poor. We didn't 
id. They had shoes, they had 
the war, I discovered the fate of 
)thers, relatives, and neighbors. 
their minds as they realized 
; chamber." 
owed by an international scan-
hundreds of millions of pounds 
Is and used them to prop up his 
ried for conspiracy to commit 
. But Ghislaine, who had grown 
md counted the Duke of York, 
lates, could not escape the dark 
king to start fresh, she took the 
L Epstein were lovers. "She was 
a longtime friend of Ghislaine's. 
, more. Ghislaine took care of 
She managed his household and 
rooklyn-born Jewish boys could 
lg to lawsuits and witness testi-
)f several women who procured 
.ing to people who knew her back 
:emed to take pleasure in satisfy
ein to a fabulous world that the 
116 
Brooklyn boy knew nothing about. One friend jokes that she 
taught Epstein the difference between a fish fork and a salad fork. 
But despite—or was it because of? —Maxwell's devotion to 
Epstein, she, too, graduated from girlfriend to friend status. 
According to Jane Doe 102 vs. Jeffrey Epstein, a civil complaint 
filed in 2009 by a woman later identified as Virginia Roberts, one 
of the services Maxwell provided for Epstein was the procure-
ment of underage women. (Through her lawyer and in court 
papers, Maxwell has vehemently denied any involvement with 
Virginia, with any other young woman Epstein was involved 
with, or with any criminal activities committed by Jeffrey Epstein. 
In a 2016 answer to a defamation lawsuit brought by Roberts, 
Maxwell called the allegations fabricated for financial gain.) 
The case of Nadia Bjorlin, who was thirteen when she was 
first noticed by Epstein, raises questions in this regard, at least 
in the eyes of her mother. 
Bjorlin's Iranian-born mother spoke to a British tabloid some 
years ago about her family's disturbing experience with Maxwell 
and Epstein. Bjorlin's father, a celebrated conductor of classical 
music, had died a year earlier, the mother said. She believed that 
this made the girl a vulnerable and easy target. 
"She was at school at the famed Interlochen Arts Center, in 
Michigan, when she met Epstein," the mother said. 
"My daughter was a singer. She was a baby. She was a skinny 
little girl, not mature for her age. She was thirteen, but everyone 
thought she was nine or ten. 
"Epstein was a big donor, and he heard about Nadia and that 
her father had died, so she was vulnerable, and he contacted her. 
He said, 'Here's my number.' 
"He kept saying, 'Come—will you come?' He said he wanted 
117 
JAMES PATTERSON 
to help mentor her. I wouldn't let her meet him. What sort of a 
man approaches a young girl and asks to meet her?" 
In the meantime, •Maxwell had become friendly with the 
family. "I trusted Ghislaine; she was like a mother," Bjorlin's 
mother recalled. "She was always calling my house. 
"Ghislaine didn't want me to meet Epstein, but I did anyway, 
and I asked what he wanted with Nadia. He said he wanted to 
help her singing career. He said, 'I'd like to be like a godfather.' It 
felt creepy. 
"I had a bad vibe about him and said, 'Stop!' I told him, 'No, 
thank you. She doesn't need your help.' I kept Nadia away from 
him. She never met him alone. She never went anywhere with him." 
Despite her suspicions, it took Epstein's arrest to make Bjor-
lin's mother wonder whether Maxwell and Epstein hadn't been 
sizing her daughter up for his stable of underage women. 
118 
Leslie Wexner: 19.' 
Leslie Wexner, ti 
erner. Born in 
Russian-Jewish 
shooter— taciturn ar 
For several years 
was the largest yacht 
Wexner's emplo) 
fiercely loyal to therri 
In time, he'd corn 
"Everyone was n 
ys Robert Morosk 
tailer the Limited, 
"Almost everyor 
other former emp 
t of nowhere." 
TERSON 
t her meet him. What sort of a 
asks to meet her?" 
had become friendly with the 
e was like a mother," Bjorlin's 
; calling my house. 
meet Epstein, but I did anyway, 
th Nadia. He said he wanted to 
'I'd like to be like a godfather.' It 
and said, 'Stop!' I told him, 'No, 
ur help.' I kept Nadia away from 
e never went anywhere with him." 
ok Epstein's arrest to make Bjor-
laxwell and Epstein hadn't been 
table of underage women. 
118 
CHAPTER 30 
Leslie Wexner: 1993 
Leslie Wexner, the richest man in Ohio, is a proud midwest-
erner. Born into the rag trade (Wexner's parents were 
Russian-Jewish immigrants), he grew up to be a straight 
shooter— taciturn and camera-shy. 
For several years running, his 315-foot boat, the Limitless, 
was the largest yacht owned by an American. • 
Wexner's employees loved him, and he was known to be 
fiercely loyal to them. 
In time, he'd come to see the same qualities in Jeffrey Epstein. 
"Everyone was mystified as to what [Epstein's] appeal was," 
says Robert Morosky, a former vice chairman of the clothing 
retailer the Limited, founded by Wexner. 
"Almost everyone at the Limited wondered who he was," 
another former employee of Wexner's recalls. -"He literally came 
out of nowhere." 
119 
JAMES PATTERSON 
F1 
But it seems that Epstein did work hard to untangle Wexner's 
finances. And it appears he succeeded. "Jeffrey cleaned that up 
right away," a former associate of Epstein's says. 
The two men became all but inseparable. 
"Very smart, with a combination of excellent judgment and 
unusually high standards," Wexner said of Epstein at the time. 
"Also, he is always a most loyal friend." 
When Wexner wanted to break up with a woman he'd been 
dating for several years—a woman who moved to Ohio and con-
verted to Judaism to make him happy—he dispatched Epstein 
to do the dirty work. 
When Wexner hired a decorator for his Ohio mansion and 
wanted someone to verify the authenticity of several expensive 
antiques, Epstein flew in his friend Stuart Pivar, the renowned 
art collector and author. (According to Pivar, most of the antiques 
were cheap imitations.) When Wexner traveled abroad, he'd 
bring back trinkets and gifts for Epstein. When Wexner wanted 
to see Cats, Epstein arranged to have the cast perform in his 
mansion. 
In Ohio, Wexner's associates whispered about his relationship 
with Jeffrey Epstein. In New York, they wondered about Epstein's 
role in Wexner's 1993 marriage to Abigail Koppel. 
At thirty-one, Koppel was twenty-four years Wexner's junior. 
It was Epstein who negotiated the prenuptial agreement and 
orchestrated its very strange signing. Abigail signed the agree-
ment in her law office. Wexner signed it in his office. According 
to an associate of Epstein's who was present, Epstein brought a 
Sports Illustrated swimsuit model along to Wexner's office, as if 
to make the point that then 
world. As a joke, Epstein pl 
belly and had Wexner sign it 
Epstein asked his friend: 
"Yes, Jeffrey," said Wexne 
"It was an uproarious sce 
Jeffrey being Jeffrey. That wa 
'TERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
vork hard to untangle Wexner's 
eeded. "Jeffrey cleaned that up 
Epstein's says. 
inseparable. 
ttion of excellent judgment and 
ner said of Epstein at the time. 
riend." 
..ak up with a woman he'd been 
an who moved to Ohio and con-
happy — he dispatched Epstein 
rator for his Ohio mansion and 
iuthenticity of several expensive 
iend Stuart Pivar, the renowned 
ling to Pivar, most of the antiques 
Wexner traveled abroad, he'd 
r Epstein. When Wexner wanted 
to have the cast perform in his 
Nhispered about his relationship 
rk, they wondered about Epstein's 
!. to Abigail Koppel. 
wenty-four years Wexner's junior. 
:d the prenuptial agreement and 
Agning. Abigail signed the agree-
r signed it in his office. According 
lo was present, Epstein brought a 
del along to Wexner's office, as if 
120 
to make the point that there are other beautiful women in the 
world. As a joke, Epstein placed the agreement on the model's 
belly and had Wexner sign it right there. 
Epstein asked his friend: "Are you sure you want to do this?" 
"Yes, Jeffrey," said Wexner. "Quite sure." 
It was an uproarious scene," Epstein's associate recalls. "Just 
Jeffrey being Jeffrey. That was his gestalt." 
121 
PART 
The omen 
CHAPTER 31 
Mc2 Model Management's NYC branch is looking for "highly 
motivated and energetic" interns to assist their agents part-time 
or full-time. If you're thinking to yourself, who?, it's the agency 
founded by Jean-Luc Brunel, the guy who first signed Christy 
Turlington when she was just fourteen. Responsibilities include 
scanning pictures, answering phones, assisting with updating 
models' portfolios, and working in Photoshop, Word and Excel 
(so you have to already know what you're doing in those). You 
Must: Be interested in the fashion, modeling and photography 
industries, outgoing, well spoken, and able to keep cool while 
five different people demand Starbucks / copies / phone calls / 
etc. This is a great opportunity to get hands-on experience at a 
smaller agency, plus they can offer a stipend and a Met rocard 
as well as school credit if needed. Send your resume to intern@ 
mc2mm.com Good luck! 
—Julia Hermanns, Fashionista, January 30, 2009 
125 
JAMES PATTERSON• 
Jean-Luc Brunel: 2005 
IFor Jeffrey Epstein, Leslie Wexner is more than a mentor. 
More than the last in a line of older men—father figures—
whom Epstein cultivated while making his way in the 
world. 
Wexner is also a steady, if indirect, source of beautiful 
women. 
After all, Wexner is the man in charge of Victoria's Secret, 
part of the Limited family of companies and—better yet—in 
charge of the Victoria's Secret catalog. What this means for 
Epstein is models galore. In fact, like a fox that's gotten hold of 
the lease to a henhouse, Epstein, according to evidence collected 
in a later lawsuit brought by Epstein victims, eventually pro-
vided financial support for a modeling agency, and provided 
support for models employed by that agency, in New York City. 
This story begins with a Frenchman— a playboy modeling 
agent named Jean-Luc Brunel—who was an owner of the Karin 
modeling agency. 
Brunel had been working as a modeling agent since the sev-
enties. He claimed to have launched the careers of Monica Bel-
lucci, Estelle, Jerry Hall, Rachel Hunter, Milla Jovovich, Rebecca 
Romijn, Kristina Semenovskaya, Sharon Stone, and Estella War-
ren, as well as Christy Turlington and other well-known cover 
girls. Brunel had also been a subject of a 60 Minutes investiga-
tion, broadcast in 1988, into sexual exploitation in the modeling 
industry. That expose had caused Eileen Ford of the elite Ford 
modeling agency to sever her ties with the playboy. (Bruners 
activities were also chronicled in a 1995 book about the fashion 
126 
industry—Model: The 
Gross.) 
But Brunel's reputat 
getting involved in his 
According to a sun 
Edwards, a victims' law 
Epstein alleging fabrics 
Epstein had provided st 
its name, in 2005, from 
As a scout for MC2 
undiscovered talent, faN 
the former Soviet repuE 
eling competitions and 
eling agents and agenci 
But according to th 
the information he ha( 
and Brunel had used th 
eign countries into the 
ing contracts. These g 
belonging to Epstein. 
visa for these girls," 
underage girls rent, pre 
the condos." 
"I strongly deny I 
indirectly, in the actior 
Brunel would say. "I st 
act or any wrongdoing 
model agencies manag 
cal standard for almosi 
According to Brut 
ERSON. 
FILTHY RICH 
xner is more than a mentor. 
f older men— father figures — 
thile making his way in the 
indirect, source of beautiful 
in charge of Victoria's Secret, 
mpanies and—better yet—in 
catalog. What this means for 
like a fox that's gotten hold of 
according to evidence collected 
pstein victims, eventually pro-
lodeling agency, and provided 
that agency, in New York City. 
mchman— a playboy modeling 
who was an owner of the Karin 
a modeling agent since the sev-
.ched the careers of Monica Bel-
Hunter, Milla Jovovich, Rebecca 
Sharon Stone, and Estella War-
ton and other well-known cover 
ubject of a 60 Minutes investiga-
(ual exploitation in the modeling 
sed Eileen Ford of the elite Ford 
ties with the playboy. (Bruners 
in a 1995 book about the fashion • 
126 
industry—Model: The Ugly Business of Beautiful Women, by Michael 
Gross.) 
But Brunel's reputation did not prevent Jeffrey Epstein from 
getting involved in his business. 
According to a summary judgment court filing by Bradley 
Edwards, a victims' lawyer defending against a lawsuit by Jeffrey 
Epstein alleging fabrication of sexual assault cases against him, 
Epstein had provided support for Brunel's agency, which changed 
its name, in 2005, from Karin to MC2 — as in E = mc2. 
As a scout for MC2, Brunel traveled the world in search of 
undiscovered talent, favoring Scandinavia, Israel, central Europe, 
the former Soviet republics, and South America, setting up mod-
eling competitions and negotiating with other international mod-
eling agents and agencies. 
But according to the court filing, in which Edwards detailed 
the information he had gathered in support of victims, Epstein 
and Brunel had used the agency to bring underage girls from for-
eign countries into the United States by promising them model-
ing contracts. These girls were then housed in condominiums 
belonging to Epstein. "Epstein and Brunel would then obtain a 
visa for these girls," the document states, "then charge the 
underage girls rent, presumably to live as underage prostitutes in 
the condos." 
"I strongly deny having participated, neither directly nor 
indirectly, in the actions Mr. Jeffrey Epstein is being accused of," 
Brunel would say. "I strongly deny having committed any illicit 
act or any wrongdoing in the course of my work as a scouter or 
model agencies manager. I have exercised with the utmost ethi-
cal standard for almost forty years." 
According to Brunel, his association with Jeffrey Epstein 
127 
JAMES PATTERSON 
ended up having a strong negative impact on his reputation and 
business. Several photographers refused to work with him. Other 
agencies, such as Modilinos Model Management, curtailed their 
relationships with Brunel. And in 2015, Brunel filed his own 
civil lawsuit against Jeffrey Epstein, denying that he had any role 
in Epstein's illegal activities, alleging that Epstein had obstructed 
justice by telling him to avoid having his deposition taken in the 
criminal case the Palm Beach PD had built against Epstein, and 
claiming that false allegations of Brunel's links to Epstein's activ-
ities had harmed his reputation and cost him a great deal of 
business. 
In his filing, Brunel included several e-mails from industry 
contacts who expressed their doubts about placing models with 
his agency. "Parents don't want their daughters coming to us 
because [when] they google your name and the agency name the 
only things they see is 'Sex Trafficking'!!!" one correspondent 
had written. 
128 
Nadia Marcinkova: circ 
C2 has offices in I\ 
motion—flying to 
Virgin Islands. Oi 
Paris. And when he comes 
where important people — c 
university presidents, Nobe 
ex-presidents, and heads of si 
Some guests marvel in p1 
do they come from? 
Nadia Marcinkova com( 
model. But Nadia's done very 
become another of Epstein's 
According to statements 
also served as a willing acc( 
on underage females. 
ERSON 
impact on his reputation and 
used to work with him. Other 
Management, curtailed their 
2015, Brunel filed his own 
, denying that he had any role 
ig that Epstein had obstructed 
ng his deposition taken in the 
had built against Epstein, and 
runel's links to Epstein's activ-
and cost him a great deal of 
several e-mails from industry 
bts about placing models with 
:heir daughters coming to us 
lame and the agency name the 
licking'! !!" one correspondent 
1 
Nadia Marcinkova: circa 2000 
Paris. 
where 
CHAPTER 32 
C2 has offices in New York City. But Jeffrey's always in 
motion—flying to his homes in New Mexico and the 
Virgin Islands. Often to Palm Beach. Sometimes to 
And when he comes home to New York he hosts parties 
important people—corporate titans, real estate tycoons, 
university presidents, Nobel Prize—winning scientists, princes, 
ex-presidents, and heads of state—mingle with beautiful women. 
Some guests marvel in public: Who are these women? Where 
do they come from? 
Nadia Marcinkova comes from Slovakia. She looks like a 
model. But Nadia's done very little modeling, if any. Instead she's 
become another of Epstein's girlfriends. 
According to statements given to the Palm Beach police, she's 
also served as a willing accomplice in Epstein's sexual assaults 
on underage females. 
129 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Epstein prefers diminutive women, but Nadia is tall. She's 
rail-thin and blond like the sun, with glowing skin, a wide smile, 
and sky-high cheekbones. 
On a good day, she could pass for a Bond girl— a woman 
caught up in a web of crime and intrigue. But of course, that's 
exactly what she is. 
In certain circles, the academics and the women in Epstein's 
orbit are almost a joke. In a 2003 profile of him, New York maga-
zine quotes Harvard professors ("He is amazing"), Princeton 
professors ("He changed my life"), MIT professors ("If I had acted 
upon the investment advice he has given me over the years, I'd 
be calling you from my Gulfstream right now"), and other lumi-
naries, up to and including Bill Clinton. 
"I've known Jeff for fifteen years," says Donald Trump. 
"Terrific guy; he's a lot of fun to be with." 
No one knew then that someday Trump would run for presi-
dent. (When he does, he'll attack Hillary Clinton for Bill Clinton's 
own entanglements with Epstein.) But Trump's already ahead of 
the curve in that he ends up severing his ties to Epstein well 
before the police or the media get wind of Epstein's penchant for 
underage girls. 
He does this because he finds out that in their endless hunt 
for "masseuses," Epstein's procurers have been prowling around 
Trump's estate in Palm Beach. 
130 
Virginia Roberts: 1999 
P1' rump's estate, Mar-
ulously wealthy he: 
sits on twenty perfi 
miles away from Jeffrey E 
home to the exclusive Mar-
courts, and a very posh rest 
Donald Trump had fou 
they blocked all his efforts I 
Other clubs on the island-
blacks and Jews— had neve 
argued. At one point he seni 
ber of the town council: Gu 
Sidney Poitier confronts his 
tleman's Agreement, in which 
in Connecticut and New Yoi 
TERSON 
1 
omen, but Nadia is tall. She's 
rith glowing skin, a wide smile, 
tss for a Bond girl—a woman 
intrigue. But of course, that's 
CHAPTER 33 
:s and the women in Epstein's 
profile of him, New York maga-
; ("He is amazing"), Princeton 
), MIT professors ("If I had acted 
has given me over the years, I'd 
am right now"), and other lumi-
:linton. 
n years," says Donald Trump. 
be with." 
.day Trump would run for presi-
z Hillary Clinton for Bill Clinton's 
.n.) But Trump's already ahead of 
;evering his ties to Epstein well 
;et wind of Epstein's penchant for 
tds out that in their endless hunt 
urers have been prowling around 
130 
ie 
Virginia Roberts: 1999 
Trump's estate, Mar-a-Lago, had once belonged to the fab-
ulously wealthy heiress Marjorie Merriweather Post. It 
sits on twenty perfectly manicured acres less than two 
miles away from Jeffrey Epstein's home on El Brillo Way. It's 
home to the exclusive Mar-a-Lago Club, which has a spa, tennis 
courts, and a very posh restaurant. 
Donald Trump had fought the town council for decades as 
they blocked all his efforts to turn the place into a private resort. 
Other clubs on the island— those with a history of excluding 
blacks and Jews— had never faced such restrictions, Trump had 
argued. At one point he sent copies of two movies to every mem-
ber of the town council: Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, in which 
Sidney Poitier confronts his girlfriend's racist parents, and Gen-
tleman's Agreement, in which a journalist confronts anti-Semitism 
in Connecticut and New York City. 
131 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"Whether they love me or not, everyone agrees the greatest 
and most important place in Palm Beach is Mar-a-Lago," Trump 
told the Washington Post after winning his battle. "I took this 
ultimate place and made it incredible and opened it, essentially, 
to the people of Palm Beach. The fact that I owned it made it a lot 
easier to get along with the Palm Beach establishment." 
The Breakers hotel, Trump explained, "gets the [island's] 
leftovers." 
It cost $100,000 to join the club. Members paid $14,000 
yearly in dues. And although Epstein had never properly joined 
the club, Trump's friendship with Ghislaine Maxwell gave Epstein 
unlimited use of the facilities. 
This arrangement ended when a member's young daughter 
complained to her wealthy father: while relaxing at Mar-a-Lago, 
she'd been approached and invited out to Epstein's house. 
The girl said that she had gone and that Epstein had tried to 
get her to undress. 
The girl's father had gone directly to Trump, who —in no 
uncertain terms—told Epstein that he was barred from Mar-a-
Lago. 
Because no complaint was filed, the police had taken no 
action. But years later, a woman named Virginia Roberts would 
say that, as a young girl, she'd had an identical encounter at 
Mar-a-Lago. 
According to a court document Virginia filed in her civil 
lawsuit against Epstein, she was a changing-room assistant at 
Mar-a-Lago, earning about nine dollars an hour, when Ghislaine 
Maxwell approached her. Maxwell asked Virginia if she was 
interested in learning to be a massage therapist—which, it 
turned out, she was. Like the other girl, Virginia told her father, 
132 
who was also employed at 
ager. But Virginia's father s 
he drove her, later that day 
There, according to thE 
ia's father that Ms. Maxwel 
for his teenage daughter. T 
room equipped with a sl 
Epstein was lying, naked, c 
Virginia was shocked, 
experience with massages, 
apy protocol. "Ms. Maxwel 
on her underwear and 
[Jeffrey's] body, impliedly 
expected to do," the filing 
[Virginia] to take off her cl 
sive about doing this, but, in 
by removing everything but 
to remove her underwear a 
escalated, with [Jeffrey] at 
battering, exploiting, and at 
in various locations, incluc 
At the end of this sexua 
Ms. Maxwell giddily told 1. 
and told her she had 'lots c 
hundreds of dollars, told h 
directed one of her employe 
At the time, Virginia wa 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
everyone agrees the greatest 
Beach is Mar-a-Lago," Trump 
ming his battle. "I took this 
ble and. opened it, essentially, 
la that I owned it made it a lot 
;each establishment." 
:xplained, "gets the [island's] 
club. Members paid $14,000 
tein had never properly joined 
3hislaine Maxwell gave Epstein 
m. a member's young daughter 
while relaxing at Mar-a-Lago, 
d out to Epstein's house. 
le and that Epstein had tried to 
irectly to Trump, who —in no 
that he was barred from Mar-a-
filed, the police had taken no 
named Virginia Roberts would 
had an identical encounter at 
ment Virginia filed in her civil 
as a changing-room assistant at 
: dollars an hour, when Ghislaine 
(well asked Virginia if she was 
a massage therapist—which, it 
ther girl, Virginia told her father, 
132 
II 
4 
who was also employed at Mar-a-Lago as a maintenance man-
ager. But Virginia's father saw nothing wrong with the offer, and 
he drove her, later that day, to Epstein's house on El Brillo Way. 
There, according to the document, Maxwell assured Virgin-
ia's father that Ms. Maxwell would provide transportation home 
for his teenage daughter. Then she led Virginia upstairs, to a spa 
room equipped with a shower and a massage table. Jeffrey 
Epstein was lying, naked, on the table. 
Virginia was shocked, she says in the filing, but, with no 
experience with massages, thought this could be massage ther-
apy protocol. "Ms. Maxwell then took off her own shirt and left 
on her underwear and started rubbing her breasts across 
[Jeffrey's] body, impliedly showing [Virginia] what she was 
expected to do," the filing continues. "Ms. Maxwell then told 
[Virginia] to take off her clothes. The minor girl was apprehen-
sive about doing this, but, in fear, proceeded to follow Ms. Maxwell 
by removing everything but her underwear. She was then ordered 
to remove her underwear and straddle [Epstein]. The encounter 
escalated, with [Jeffrey] and Ms. Maxwell sexually assaulting, 
battering, exploiting, and abusing [Virginia] in various ways and 
in various locations, including the steam room and the shower. 
At the end of this sexually exploitive abuse, [Epstein] and 
Ms. Maxwell giddily told [Virginia] to return the following day 
and told her she had 'lots of potential.' [Epstein] paid [Virginia] 
hundreds of dollars, told her it was for two hours of work, and 
directed one of her employees to drive her home." 
At the time, Virginia was fifteen years old. 
133 
CHAPTER 34 
Declaration of Virginia Roberts Giuffre: January 19, 
2015, filed on January 19, 2015 by attorneys 
representing Jeffrey Epstein's victims 
1. My name is Virginia Giuffre and I was born in August, 
1983. 
2. I am currently 31 years old. 
3. I grew up in Palm Beach, Florida. When I was little, I 
loved animals and wanted to be a veterinarian. But my life 
took a very different turn when adults—including Jeffrey 
Epstein and his close friend Alan Dershowitz —began to be 
interested in having sex with me. 
4. In approximately 1999, when I was 15 years old, I met 
Ghislaine Maxwell. She is the daughter of Robert Maxwell, 
who had been a wealthy publisher in Britain. Maxwell asked 
that I come with her to Jeffrey Epstein's mansion for the pur-
poses of teaching me how to perform "massages" and to train 
134 
Fu. 
me personally in that area. 
home in Palm Beach on El 
5. From the first time. 
that day, his motivations c 
Maxwell's. My father was 
up some stairs. There was c 
in the room. Epstein and 
activity with Epstein. I lc 
seemed to be in his 40s or 5 
home by one of Epstein's ern 
6. I came back for sev. 
same sorts of sexual things j 
7. After I did those things 
they were going to have me ti 
cation for me. They were pro; 
travel with Epstein on his pri. 
fession. Epstein said he womb 
wealthy person so that I woul 
8. So I started "working" 
me to New York on his big, 
sion in New York City. I was 
rious room. The mansion wc 
got scared because it was si 
room with a massage parlor 
sexual activities with him the 
9. You can see how you 
below [see insert page 31. 
10. Epstein took me on aj 
New York City and there he 
approximately 15 or 16 years 
1 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 34 
erts Giuffre: January 19, 
015 by attorneys 
i's victims 
fre and I was born in August, 
; old. 
:h, Florida. When I was little, I 
s be a veterinarian. But my life 
'hen adults— including Jeffrey 
Alan Dershowitz— began to be 
me. 
when I was 15 years old, I met 
ie daughter of Robert Maxwell, 
tisher in Britain. Maxwell asked 
'y Epstein's mansion for the pur-
oerform "massages" and to train 
134 
me personally in that area. Soon after that I went to Epstein's 
home in Palm Beach on El Brill° Way. 
5. From the first time I was taken to Epstein's mansion 
that day, his motivations and actions were sexual, as were 
Maxwell's. My father was not allowed inside. I was brought 
up some stairs. There was a naked guy, Epstein, on the table 
in the room. Epstein and Maxwell forced me into sexual 
activity with Epstein. I was 15 years old at the time. He 
seemed to be in his 40s or 50s. I was paid $200. I was driven 
home by one of Epstein's employees. 
6. I came back for several days following and did the 
same sorts of sexual things for Epstein. 
7. After I did those things for Epstein, he and Maxwell said 
they were going to have me travel and were going to get an edu-
cation for me. They were promising me the world, that I would 
travel with Epstein on his private jet and have a well-paid pro-
fession. Epstein said he would eventually match me up with a 
wealthy person so that I would be "set up" for life. 
8. So I started "working" exclusively for Epstein. He took 
me to New York on his big, private jet. We went to his man-
sion in New York City. I was shown to my room, a very luxu-
rious room. The mansion was huge. I was very young and I 
got scared because it was so big. Epstein brought me to a 
room with a massage parlor. Epstein made me engage [in] 
sexual activities with him there. 
9. You can see how young I looked in the photograph 
below [see insert page 3]. 
.10. Epstein took me on a ferry boat on one of the trips to 
New York City and there he took the picture above. I was 
approximately 15 or 16 years old at the time. 
135 
JAMES PATTERSON 
11. Over the next few weeks, Jeffrey Epstein and Ghis-
laine Maxwell trained me to do what they wanted, including 
sexual activities. The training was in New York and Florida, 
at Epstein's mansion. It was basically every day and it was 
like going to school. I also had to have sex with Epstein many 
times. 
12. I was trained to be "everything a man wanted me to 
be." It wasn't just sexual training—they wanted me to be 
able to cater to all the needs of the men they were going to 
send me to. They said that they loved that I was very compli-
ant and knew how to keep my mouth shut about what they 
expected me to do. 
13. Epstein and Maxwell also told me that they wanted 
me to produce information for them in addition to perform-
ing sex on the men. They told me to pay attention to the 
details about what the men wanted, so I could report back to 
them. 
14. While I had juvenile hopes of bettering my life, from 
very early on I was also afraid of Epstein. Epstein told me he 
was a billionaire. I told my mother that I was working for 
this rich guy, and she said "go, go far away." Epstein had 
promised me a lot, and I knew if I left I would be in big trou-
ble. I was witness to a lot of illegal and bad behavior by 
Epstein and his friends. If I left Epstein, he knew all kinds of 
powerful people. He could have had me killed or abducted, 
and I knew he was capable of that if I did not obey him. He 
let me know that he knew many people in high places. Speak-
ing about himself, he said "I can get away" with things. Even 
as a teenager, I understood what this meant and it scared me, 
as I believe he intended. 
136 
FILTF 
15. 1 visited and traveled 
through the summer of 2002 
with him for sexual activities 
sions) in locations including 
area of Santa Fe, New MeA 
island in the U.S. Virgin Islam 
with him often in these places 
pie he demanded that I have 
many of these sexual encounte 
my only purposes for Epsteir 
was to be used for sex. 
16. To illustrate my conno 
four photographs taken of me in 
for one of the photographs ni 
museum in Santa Fe, New Mexi. 
the day. Epstein took this picture 
at the time, judging from the lo( 
we returned to Epstein's Zorro R, 
on one of Epstein's horses on a 
following two are from wintertirr 
17. When I was with him, El 
girls on a daily basis. His inte 
obvious to the people around 
obvious and bold that anyone si 
at one of Epstein's residences we 
of what was going on. 
18. Epstein's code word for s( 
was a "massage." At times the 
and the girls would start in the I 
was always a sexual encounter a 
137 
FERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
s, Jeffrey Epstein and Ghis-
what they wanted, including 
as in New York and Florida, 
sically every day and it was 
) have sex with Epstein many 
rything a man wanted me to 
ing— they wanted me to be 
f the men they were going to 
loved that I was very compli-
mouth shut about what they 
[lso told me that they wanted 
them in addition to perform-
d me to pay attention to the 
nted, so I could report back to 
9pes of bettering my life, from 
r of Epstein. Epstein told me he 
lother that I was working for 
go, go far away." Epstein had 
if I left I would be in big trou-
f illegal and bad behavior by 
ft Epstein, he knew all kinds of 
tve had me killed or abducted, 
f that if I did not obey him. He 
rty people in high places. Speak-
:an get away" with things. Even 
hat this meant and it scared me, 
136 
15. I visited and traveled with Jeffrey Epstein from 1999 
through the summer of 2002, and during that time I stayed 
with him for sexual activities at each of his houses (or man-
sions) in locations including New York City, New York; the 
area of Santa Fe, New Mexico; Palm Beach, Florida; an 
island in the U.S. Virgin Islands; and Paris, France. I had sex 
with him often in these places and also with the various peo-
ple he demanded that I have sex with. Epstein paid me for 
many of these sexual encounters. Looking back, I realize that 
my only purposes for Epstein, Maxwell, and their friends 
was to be used for sex. 
16. To illustrate my connection to these places, I include 
four photographs taken of me in New Mexico [see insert page 3 
for one of the photographs mentioned]. The first one is a 
museum in Santa Fe, New Mexico. We had gone sightseeing for 
the day. Epstein took this picture of me. I was approximately 17 
at the time, judging from the looks of it. At the end of the day 
we returned to Epstein's Zorro Ranch. The second picture is me 
on one of Epstein's horses on the ranch in New Mexico. The 
following two are from wintertime in New Mexico. 
17. When I was with him, Epstein had sex with underage 
girls on a daily basis. His interest in this kind of sex was 
obvious to the people around him. The activities were so 
obvious and bold that anyone spending any significant time 
at one of Epstein's residences would have clearly been aware 
of what was going on. 
18. Epstein's code word for sexual encounters was that it 
was a "massage." At times the interaction between Epstein 
and the girls would start in the massage room setting, but it 
was always a sexual encounter and never just a massage. 
137 
JAMES PATTERSON 
19. In addition to constantly finding underage girls to 
satisfy their personal desires, Epstein and Maxwell also got 
girls for Epstein's friends and acquaintances. Epstein specifi-
cally told me that the reason for him doing this was so that 
they would "owe him," they would "be in his pocket," and he 
would "have something on them." I understood that Epstein 
thought he could get leniency if he was ever caught doing 
anything illegal, or that he could escape trouble altogether. 
Roberts submitted her declaration in support of a motion to 
be added as a plaintiff in a suit (ongoing, as of this writing) that 
sought to overturn a non-prosecution agreement that Jeffrey 
Epstein would reach with the government. Roberts was seeking 
to join a case brought against the government by two other vic-
tims, but a judge denied her motion in April of 2015, explaining 
that the case had already been pending for several years, and it 
was unneccesary to add an additional plaintiff. 
Roberts's declaration, which goes on for another eight pages, and 
makes twenty-four additional points, was stricken from the record—
the judge explained that the "lurid" and "unnecessary details" 
involving "non-parties" to the lawsuit against the government, were 
"immaterial and impertinent" to the proceedings. 
Through a representative, Ghislaine Maxwell called the 
allegations against her "obvious lies," after which Roberts filed a 
defamation suit against Maxwell. In an answer filed in the suit, 
Maxwell elaborated that Roberts's "story of abuse at the hands of 
Ms. Maxwell" was "fabricated" for financial gain. 
138 
Alicia: May 20, 1997 
Donald Trump's instin 
solid. But if the repc 
into Epstein's myster 
ther, there's a chance they wc 
not just in Palm Beach. 
In California, for instan 
from the Santa Monica Police 
In the spring--almost the 
the police. The young woman i 
appeared on Baywatch and Gei 
ally assaulted at a trendy hotel 
- The officer who took th 
Alicia*—and her voice. A w 
Alicia's name, some identifying ( 
tERSON 
ly finding underage girls to 
pstein and Maxwell also got 
:quaintances. Epstein specifi-
r him doing this was so that 
tld "be in his pocket," and he 
vi." I understood that Epstein 
if he was ever caught doing 
d escape trouble altogether. 
ation in support of a motion to 
mgoing, as of this writing) that 
cution agreement that Jeffrey 
vernment. Roberts was seeking 
e government by two other vic-
ion in April of 2015, explaining 
)ending for several years, and it 
ional plaintiff. 
)es on for another eight pages, and 
its, was stricken from the record—
urid" and "unnecessary details" 
suit against the government, were 
he proceedings. 
Ghislaine Maxwell called the 
lies," after which Roberts filed a 
11. In an answer filed in the suit, 
s's "story of abuse at the hands of 
for financial gain. 
138 
CHAPTER 35 
Alicia: May 20, 1997 
Donald Trump's instincts regarding Jeffrey Epstein were 
solid. But if the reporters who were beginning to look 
into Epstein's mysterious background had dug a bit fur-
ther, there's a chance they would have hit pay dirt as well—and 
not just in Palm Beach. 
In California, for instance, a paper trail already stretched 
from the Santa Monica Police Department to Epstein's front door. 
In the spring—almost the summer—of 1997, a call came in to 
the police. The young woman who placed it—a young actress who'd 
appeared on Baywatch and General Hospital—said she'd been sexu-
ally assaulted at a trendy hotel called Shutters on the Beach. 
The officer who took the call knew the woman's name — 
Alicia* — and her voice. A week earlier, she'd told him about an 
Alicia's name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been changed. 
139 
FIU 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Then, Alicia told the cop, 
her will while acting as thoue 
had stopped Epstein, and left 
incident. 
At the top of his crime 
Battery." But Epstein was ne. 
Santa Monica Police Departme 
allegations of improper condu 
no action on this 1997 comp 
attorney, Jack Goldberger, told 
"The cops said it'd be my 
paper. "And since he had a 
thought much about it since, 1 
now, I want everybody to kno‘ 
been." 
encounter with Epstein. The woman had not wanted to make a 
formal complaint at the time. But she had taken the cop's card, 
and now he was happy to hear that she'd changed her mind. 
In a shaky voice, Alicia described Epstein as a tallish man—
five feet eleven or six feet in height was her guess—with gray 
hair and brown eyes. He was the owner of a large black four-door 
Mercedes and was a regular at Shutters on the Beach, which was 
the kind of place that cost one thousand dollars a night and was 
frequented by actors, agents, and other Hollywood types. 
Alicia told the cop that she was a model and actress herself. 
She'd known Epstein for about a month. They had a friend in 
common, and she'd sent him her head shots. 
Then, through an assistant, Epstein had invited her to meet 
in his room at the hotel. 
Alicia said she was having reservations, the officer wrote in his 
report, because generally interviews are not conducted in hotel 
According to her, things turned frightening quickly. 
She was unsure she was safe because although she wanted to 
land the job as a 'Victoria's Secret' catalog model she felt as 
though Epstein was attempting to get her to act in an unpro-
fessional manner for a model. 
Epstein wore navy blue sweatpants and a white T-shirt, she 
recalled. The T-shirt had the letters USA printed on it in patriotic 
red, white, and blue. 
Epstein told her to undress and actually assisted her to do so 
while saying 'let me manhandle you for a second.' 
140 
TERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
nan had not wanted to make a 
t she had taken the cop's card, 
at she'd changed her mind. 
ibed Epstein as a tallish man — 
ght was her guess—with gray 
owner of a large black four-door 
tutters on the Beach, which was 
tousand dollars a night and was 
. other Hollywood types. 
vas a model and actress herself. 
a month. They had a friend in 
head shots. 
Epstein had invited her to meet 
_rvations, the officer wrote in his 
tiews are not conducted in hotel 
ned frightening quickly. 
)ecause although she wanted to 
ecret' catalog model she felt as 
tg to get her to act in an unpro-
eatpants and a white T-shirt, she 
.ters USA printed on it in patriotic 
rid actually assisted her to do so 
die you for a second.' 
Then, Alicia told the cop, Epstein groped her buttocks against 
her will while acting as though he was evaluating her body. Alicia 
had stopped Epstein, and left the room, but couldn't get over the 
incident. 
At the top of his crime report, the officer wrote "Sexual 
Battery." But Epstein was never charged in the incident. "The 
Santa Monica Police Department discounted every one of [Alicia's] 
allegations of improper conduct by Jeffrey Epstein and they took 
no action on this 1997 complaint," Epstein's West Palm Beach 
attorney, Jack Goldberger, told the Palm Beach Post in 2010. 
"The cops said it'd be my word against his," Alicia told the 
paper. "And since he had a lot of money, I let it go. I hadn't 
thought much about it since, until I saw his picture online. And 
now, I want everybody to know how much of a creep he's always 
been." 
CHAPTER 36 
Graydon Carter: December 2002 
Graydon Carter, the legendary editor of Vanity Fair, likes to 
get to his office early, well before the rest of his staff 
files in. 
Most monthly magazines operate at a leisurely pace— three 
weeks of coming up with ideas, assigning articles, and shooting 
the shit in the corporate kitchen followed by one frantic week 
when all the actual editing gets done. But this isn't the case at 
Vanity Fair, which runs hard-hitting investigative pieces along-
side its glitzy celebrity profiles. There are also parties to plan 
and host—incredibly glamorous parties, including the annual 
Oscar-night bash, which is more fun and far more exclusive than 
the Academy Awards ceremony itself. Vanity Fair is an old, 
famous brand. But Carter is its public face, just as Anna Wintour 
is the face of Conde Nast's iconic fashion magazine, Vogue. 
142 
One cover of Vanity F 
superstar. And a single tl 
down a corporate overlorc. 
Carter's easy to recogr 
a lion's mane. The Santa ( 
tailored bespoke suit. He s 
be more serious about hi! 
heavily on him this montl 
to Vicky Ward, an English 
ity Fair. He'd meant for it 
pregnant with twins. She 
story right on her doorster 
Who was he, really? Cat 
attended by academics, bull 
he'd flown Bill Clinton tc 
how he had made his fort 
tor of F. Scott Fitzgerald's 
Carter himself could h 
his case, the author would 
dropout who'd worked as 
York in his late twenties al 
rise up the social and med 
and outgoing, Epstein red 
him was known. Maybe, 
What did Epstein do, exact 
Why were so many 
And where did those beaut 
Almost immediately, F 
Ward. He prevailed upon 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 36 
2002 
lary editor of Vanity Fair, likes to 
yell before the rest of his staff 
)erate at a leisurely pace—three 
assigning articles, and shooting 
m followed by one frantic week 
s done. But this isn't the case at 
itting investigative pieces along-
3. There are also parties to plan 
us parties, including the annual 
e fun and far more exclusive than 
ny itself. Vanity Fair is an old, 
public face, just as Anna Wintour 
ic fashion magazine, Vogue. 
142 
One cover of Vanity Fair can turn a minor celebrity into a 
superstar. And a single thoroughly researched story can bring 
down a corporate overlord. 
Carter's easy to recognize: the pompadour of white hair, like 
a lion's mane. The Santa Claus body stuffed into an impeccably 
tailored bespoke suit. He wears his fame lightly. But he could not 
be more serious about his responsibilities, which are weighing 
heavily on him this month. Months earlier, he'd assigned a piece 
to Vicky Ward, an Englishwoman who wrote frequently for Van-
ity Fair. He'd meant for it to be an easy assignment: Ward was 
pregnant with twins. She wasn't allowed to fly. But here was a 
story right on her doorstep. A nice, easy profile of Jeffrey Epstein. 
Who was he, really? Carter knew he threw fabulous parties 
attended by academics, billionaires, and beautiful women. Recently 
he'd flown Bill Clinton to Africa. But no one seemed to know 
how he had made his fortune. Epstein's story reminded the edi-
tor of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby. 
Carter himself could have stepped out of a novel—though in 
his case, the author would be Horatio Alger. A Canadian college 
dropout who'd worked as a railroad lineman, he arrived in New 
York in his late twenties and commenced an astonishingly quick 
rise up the social and media ladders. But where Carter was open 
and outgoing, Epstein really was Gatsby-like— very little about 
him was known. Maybe, Carter thought, Ward could find out. 
What did Epstein do, exactly, for money? Why was he so secretive? 
Why were so many brilliant and powerful men drawn to him? 
And where did those beautiful women come from? 
Almost immediately, Epstein began a campaign to discredit 
Ward. He prevailed upon Conrad Black, the press baron and 
143 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Epstein's Palm Beach neighbor—who was also a step-uncle of 
Vicky Ward's husband— to ask Ward to drop the story. But Ward 
was tenacious, and what she came back with was dynamite. 
More interesting and much more salacious than anything Carter 
had imagined. 
Now Carter's staff was putting in the hours it would take to 
confirm all the things she'd uncovered, picking the ones they 
could publish and laying them all out in a narrative that would 
be no less explosive than the facts it contained. 
Vicky Ward: October 
Epstein went out of l 
his own ends, and s 
Ward's phone bega 
Greenberg and Jimmy CE 
from Les Wexner; from. 
shakers who counted Eps 
Then there were the c 
go on the record, but dI 
Ward's back, he was hap 
tour of his Manhattan m; 
dined out on for years. 
extremely charming—el 
him which forks to use• 
Vicky Ward. But she was 
to have a keen eye for Eps 
144 
ATTERSON 
—who was also a step-uncle of 
Ward to drop the story. But Ward 
came back with was dynamite. 
re salacious than anything Carter 
ting in the hours it would take to 
tncovered, picking the ones they 
all out in a narrative that would 
acts it contained. 
144 
CHAPTER 37 
Vicky Ward: October 2002 
Epstein went out of his way to spin the Vanity Fair story to 
his own ends, and soon after she got the assignment, Vicky 
Ward's phone began to ring off the hook: calls from Ace 
Greenberg and Jimmy Cayne, the current head of Bear Stearns; 
from Les Wexner; from academics, scientists, and movers and 
shakers who counted Epstein among their friends. 
Then there were the calls from Epstein himself. He wouldn't 
go on the record, but despite the rumors he'd spread behind 
Ward's back, he was happy to talk informally, even give her a 
tour of his Manhattan mansion and trot out stories that he had 
dined out on for years. By most accounts, Epstein could be 
extremely charming—even if it had taken Ghislaine to teach 
him which forks to use when—and he did his best to charm 
Vicky Ward. But she was not easily seduced, and she turned out 
to have a keen eye for Epstein's missteps. 
145 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Over tea in his town house, she noticed, Epstein ate all the 
finger food that had been put out for both of them. She found it 
odd that the only book this supposedly brilliant man had left for 
her to see was a paperback by the Marquis de Sade. And then 
there was the call afterward from one of Epstein's assistants— a 
woman Ward did not know—who told her, "Jeffrey wanted me 
to tell you that you looked so pretty." 
Ward is pretty, with fine English features and flowing blond 
hair. She was also very pregnant then, with a bad case of morn-
ing sickness. She threw up often, sometimes in public, and these 
clumsy advances on Epstein's part only added to her ever-present 
nausea. For a man who was supposedly brilliant, he'd struck her, 
oddly, as not very smart. 
"Epstein is charming, but he doesn't let the charm slip into 
his eyes," she wrote. "They are steely and calculating, giving 
some hint at the steady whir of machinery running behind them. 
'Let's play chess,' he said to me, after refusing to give an inter-
view for this article. 'You be white. You get the first move.' It was 
an appropriate metaphor for a man who seems to feel he can win 
no matter what the advantage of the other side. His advantage is 
that no one really seems to know him or his history completely 
or what his arsenal actually consists of. He has carefully engi-
neered it so that he remains one of the few truly baffling myster-
ies among New York's moneyed world. People know snippets, 
but few know the whole." 
The testimonials Epstein's friends gave were glowing: "I 
think we both possess the skill of seeing patterns," Les Wexner 
told her. "Jeffrey sees patterns in politics and financial markets, 
and I see patterns in lifestyle and fashion trends. My skills are 
146 
not in investment strateg 
knows, his are not in fast 
world trends as each of u5 
"I'm on my 20th boc 
Epstein in 1997. "The ont 
ily that I send drafts to is 
But Ward also talked 
questions and qualms abc 
in lawsuits against him. C 
with him. One who had I 
board of Rockefeller Unix 
One powerful investn 
conspicuous absence frot 
ing desks don't seem to 
animals that big to not le 
Ward uncovered lega 
view with the SEC, given 
Stearns. She visited a fed. 
at length with Steven Ho. 
made a major mistake in 
told him to stay below th( 
accusations, about Epste 
denied—and Ward kne 
mastermind, was not to b 
throughout the reporting 
concerned with what sb 
with what she'd uncovere 
Time and again, he 
have on the girls?" 
'TERSON 
she noticed, Epstein ate all the 
t for both of them. She found it 
osedly brilliant man had left for 
.he Marquis de Sade. And then 
a one of Epstein's assistants— a 
ho told her, "Jeffrey wanted me 
!tty." 
;fish features and flowing blond 
t then, with a bad case of morn-
sometimes in public, and these 
rt only added to her ever-present 
Dosedly brilliant, he'd struck her, 
Le doesn't let the charm slip into 
.e steely and calculating, giving 
nachinery running behind them. 
after refusing to give an inter-
Lite. You get the first move.' It was 
nan who seems to feel he can win 
3f the other side. His advantage is 
ow him or his history completely 
onsists of. He has carefully engi-
Le of the few truly baffling myster-
ed world. People know snippets, 
s friends gave were glowing: "I 
11 of seeing patterns," Les Wexner 
in politics and financial markets, 
and fashion trends. My skills are 
146 
• FILTHY RICH 
not in investment strategy, and, as everyone who knows Jeffrey 
knows, his are not in fashion and design. We frequently discuss 
world trends as each of us sees them." 
"I'm on my 20th book," said Alan Dershowitz, who'd met 
Epstein in 1997. "The only person outside of my immediate fam-
ily that I send drafts to is Jeffrey." 
But Ward also talked to other sources, who had their own 
questions and qualms about Jeffrey Epstein. Some were involved 
in lawsuits against him. Others had served on prestigious boards 
with him. One who had witnessed Epstein's aborted stint on the 
board of Rockefeller University called him arrogant. 
One powerful investment manager wondered about Epstein's 
conspicuous absence from New York's trading floors. "The trad-
ing desks don't seem to know him," he says. "It's unusual for 
animals that big to not leave any footprints in the snow." 
Ward uncovered legal documents, including Epstein's inter-
view with the SEC, given in the wake of his departure from Bear 
Stearns. She visited a federal prison in Massachusetts and spoke 
at length with Steven Hoffenberg, who told her that Epstein had 
made a major mistake in taking Bill Clinton to Africa. "I always 
told him to stay below the radar," Hoffenberg said. He made other 
accusations, about Epstein's financial practices, which Epstein 
denied—and Ward knew that Hoffenberg, the Ponzi-scheme 
mastermind, was not to be trusted. But she did find it strange that 
throughout the reporting process Epstein was much less openly 
concerned with what she'd found out about his finances than 
with what she'd uncovered about his dealings with women. 
Time and again, he would call and ask her: "What do you 
have on the girls?" 
147 
JAMES PATTERSON 
* * * 
One young woman Ward talked to had been invited by Ghis-
laine Maxwell to attend a party at Epstein's town house. There, 
the woman had noticed, female guests far outnumbered the male 
guests. "These were not women you'd see at Upper East Side din-
ners," the woman had said. "Many seemed foreign and dressed a 
little bizarrely." 
"This same guest also attended a cocktail party thrown by 
Maxwell that Prince Andrew attended, which was filled, she 
says, with young Russian models," Ward wrote. "Some of the 
guests were horrified,' the woman says." 
Another source, one who had worked with Epstein, said, 
"He's reckless, and he's gotten more so. Money does that to you. 
He's breaking the oath he made to himself— that he would never 
do anything that would expose him in the media. Right now, in 
the wake of the publicity following his trip with Clinton, he 
must be in a very difficult place." 
148 
Vicky Ward: Novembei 
IA/hat I had 'on d 
Beast article .pu 
some remarkah 
on-the-record stories from 
who came from Phoenix. . 
character was vouchsafed 
the artist Eric Fischl, had 1 
ing room, of how Epstein h 
separately, her younger sist 
Ward had written it all 
the ifs, dotted the i's. 
But when she called E1 
the allegations completely. 
"Just the mention of 
rTERSON 
to had been invited by Ghis-
at Epstein's town house. There, 
;uests far outnumbered the male 
you'd see at Upper East Side din-
ny seemed foreign and dressed a 
.ded a cocktail party thrown by 
attended, which was filled, she 
els," Ward wrote. "Some of the 
an says." 
had worked with Epstein, said, 
nore so. Money does that to you. 
to himself— that he would never 
: him in the media. Right now, in 
Dwing his trip with Clinton, he 
1) 
148 
CHAPTER 38 
Vicky Ward: November 2002 
What I had 'on the girls," Ward explained in a Daily 
Beast article published after Epstein's arrest, "were 
some remarkably brave first-person accounts. Three 
on-the-record stories from a family: a mother and her daughters 
who came from Phoenix. The oldest daughter, an artist whose 
character was vouchsafed to me by several sources, including 
the artist Eric Fischl, had told me, weeping as she sat in my liv-
ing room, of how Epstein had attempted to seduce both her and, 
separately, her younger sister, then only 16." 
Ward had written it all down in her notes. She had crossed 
the t's, dotted the i's. 
.. But when she called Epstein to get his response, he denied 
the allegations completely. 
"Just the mention of a 16-year-old girl," Epstein told her, 
149 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"carries the wrong impression. I don't see what it adds to the 
piece. And that makes me unhappy." 
If some sort of criminal investigation had taken place, that 
would have been one thing. But, at that time, no criminal 
investigation into Epstein's affairs had been launched. And in 
the absence of an investigation, the rumors of Epstein's dealings 
with very young women seemed to be just that—rumors. 
Graydon Carter consulted his lawyers, his editors, and his 
fact-checkers. And then something odd and disturbing happened 
at the Conde Nast building, then in Times Square. 
As usual, Carter had come into the office early. He swiped his 
key card in the lobby, pressed the elevator button, and arrived in 
the hallway outside the reception area on the twenty-first floor. 
It would have been a perfect time to review Ward's story. 
Her description of Epstein's town house—which is said to 
have been the largest private residence in New York City at the 
time—was priceless: "Inside, amid the flurry of menservants 
attired in sober black suits and pristine white gloves, you feel 
you have stumbled into someone's private Xanadu," she'd writ-
ten. "This is no mere rich person's home, but a high-walled, 
eclectic, imperious fantasy that seems to have no boundaries. 
The entrance hall is decorated not with paintings but with row 
upon row of individually framed eyeballs; these, the owner tells 
people with relish, were imported from England, where they 
were made for injured soldiers. Next comes a marble foyer, which 
does have a painting, in the manner of Jean Dubuffet ... but the 
host coyly refuses to tell visitors who painted it. In any case, 
150 
One of the photogra 
captured on video during 
Palm Beach Police Departm 
search warrant walk-throi 
of Epstein's El Brillo N 
residence (Palm Beach Pc 
Departm 
Jeffrey Epstein, Coney Isl 
circa 1969 (Anonyn-
