























                    Chief Deputy Whip
                    Diana DeGette


About Diana DeGette
Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette is a 8th term member of Congress, representing Colorado’s 1st Congressional district. In her eight terms serving the Denver metro region, Diana has established herself as a leader for progressive change on health care, reproductive rights, food safety, consumer protection and the environment. 


DeGette is the most senior legislator in Colorado’s House delegation, and in the 111th Congress she held a large amount of power as the House Democratic chief deputy whip and the vice chair of the influential House Energy and Commerce Committee. 

With the Republicans taking control of the House in 2010, DeGette lost her vice chair position, but she is still a chief deputy whip and the ranking member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.

In January, 2011, Rep. DeGette was elected the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.

DeGette is best known for championing increased federal funding for stem-cell research. In 2006, the congresswoman pushed President George W. Bush to issue the very first veto of his presidency when she teamed up with then-Rep. Mike Castle (R-Del.) to pass the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act through a GOP-controlled Congress.

In summer 2008, DeGette published "Sex, Science, and Stem Cells: Inside the Right Assault on Reason," a book that condemns the politicization of science and argues that legislation on issues like abortion, birth control and funding for education programs should be based on science rather than religion. "Too many of our elected officials are simply incapable of thinking rationally about sex," she writes.

Diana is married to attorney Lino Lipinsky. They have two daughters and a dog.


Health care
Diana believes that it is critical that all Americans have access to the health care they need. Diana has led the way for health care reform in Congress and played a central role in expanding coverage for low-income children and families. 

Diana is a leading voice on health care reform in Congress. Her efforts were critical to the passage of a health reform bill earlier this year that will expand access to health care to millions of Americans and lower costs for those that previously enjoyed coverage. In particular, she was the leader of a broad coalition of representatives that were successful in resisting efforts to limit a woman’s right to choose under the new legislation. Diana’s top health care reform initiatives include access to high quality, affordable care for all children, prevention and wellness, strengthening the health care workforce, and expanding primary care and community health center services.
Diana has led efforts to expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which provides health insurance to low-income children up to age 18. In the 111th Congress, Diana was a leader in the expansion of SCHIP that was signed into law by President Obama in February of 2009.


Stem Cell Research
U.S. Rep. DeGette was the chief architect of legislation to expand stem cell research, which was passed twice with broad, bipartisan support in Congress. The measure was vetoed twice by President George W. Bush – including his very first presidential veto. In March of 2009, President Barack Obama signed an executive order reversing former President Bush’s restrictions on embryonic stem cell research. Standing next to the President as he signed the order, U.S. Rep. DeGette is working with the Obama Administration on codifying the order into law. In March 2010, Diana introduced bipartisan stem cell research legislation that would do just that. The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act would ensure a lasting ethical framework overseeing stem cell research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and will provide stability to the scientists and individuals who are on the quest for live-saving cures.



Reproductive rights
As the co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, Diana has fought for common-sense family planning and reproductive rights. She is a lead sponsor of the Prevention First agenda, which is a comprehensive, bi-partisan approach to reducing unintended pregnancies and the need for abortion. Most recently, Diana led the fight against the Stupak-Pitts Amendment – a dangerous restriction on women’s reproductive rights. 





