From: Lawrence Krauss 
Sent: 12/11/2017 6:31:28 AM 
To: Nancy Portland 
CC: Lawrence Krauss 
Subject: Re: URGENT: BuzzFeed News inquiry re allegations of sexual harassment 
Attachments: DA866543-7401-4A5A-8E50-FD32E33A5OEC.png 
Importance: High 
Second Draft: 
I appreciate the opportunity to respond to your email. While I am running the risk that you will report my 
comments, if you do, either out of context, or incompletely, I am responding with an effort to be complete. It is 
hard to know how to respond to a list of false and/or distorted allegations, along with misleading statements on 
your part. I treat people I interact with with respect, and I work hard to support and mentor students, colleagues, 
and members of the general public. I do not sexually harass people. If the purpose of your reporting is to 
somehow argue that Universities and other institutions are lax in dealing with well known individuals like 
myself, then in fact the situation is quite the opposite. My high public profile opens me up to more scrutiny at 
these institutions, not less, and it also opens me up to a host of outside complaints and allegations that other 
faculty do not receive, each of which the University has to respond to. The fact that I have remained a professor 
in all Universities with which I have been associated, in good standing, and also an officer or an invited speaker 
at organizations like CFI, which have strict harassment policies, is a confirmation of the fact that they trust my 
behavior. I was asked to be an honorary director of CFI, and invited to their last 3 meetings to speak, 
specifically because, as they have written me after the fact, the attendees universally appreciated my talks, my 
courtesy, and graciousness in spending time with the attendees. If the purpose of your report is to impugn my 
integrity or suggest I have a history of harassment, that too is false. As noted in one of your 'miscellaneous 
facts', as a scientist I try and remain skeptical, and rely on empirical evidence, rather than allegations and 
innuendo. I also try and judge the facts in context. The fact that Universities and other organizations employ 
me or have me on their boards, or invite me to meetings is because they value my contributions and my actions. 
The items you list are false or distorted. Item 1 refers to a consensual encounter in my hotel room in 2006 where 
we mutually decided, in a polite discussion in fact, that taking it any further would not be appropriate, and there 
were respectful and platonic encounters afterwards. There is nothing to comment on in item 3, which involves 
an anonymous 3rd party claim because I know nothing about it, there are no details provided, and it clearly was 
not taken seriously enough to result in any university action. Item 4 is confusing. Are you saying that because I 
decided I didn't want to go out to a bar with a group of attendees that I was harassing them? The second part 
did not happen. Re incident 5: The 'female companion' in this case is my wife, who can attest to the fact that 
the claim is false, which is what I wrote at the time in response to the blog in question, causing it to be taken 
down. 
It is worth responding to Item 2 and 6 in more detail, 
Re item 2: the student in question was interested in science communication, and on dozens of occasions came 
to me or wrote to me with questions. When she asked about advice for after graduation I DID tell her she was 
different than the other students in her year. The rest of them were interested in going on to graduate school, 
but she was interested in science communication so I told her that she might want to take a different path. Since 
she was the only woman in her year, as I recall, I did ask her on one of these occasions if that made it difficult 
for her in any way. I asked, because as a faculty member I was interested in knowing what we could do, if 
necessary to encourage more women to go into physics, and also because as someone she had asked for career 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031246 
advice from I wanted to know if that made a difference to her. Re asking her for dinner.. I have gone back over 
emails from that period. I have numerous requests from her asking me to go for coffee to talk, which I usually 
had to turn down because I was busy, and on several occasions sh specifically asked me to have coffee with her 
off campus to talk, and I politely declined. I did let her accompany me off campus one time to watch me do a 
BBC interview because she specifically requested it. I did and do have coffee and meals with students on 
campus, and I see nothing wrong with this. I try to treat even students as respected colleagues if possible. I was 
shocked when I later learned of the complaint she was apparently asked to lodge to the University, not least 
because there was no inappropriate interaction and also because, well after the dates you listed on which she 
was apparently offended, she continued to email me with joking questions or comments. Also, at a later AAAS 
conference, again in 2008, for which she had asked, and for which I had written her a letter of recommendation 
to attend, my wife and I gave her a lift in our taxi well out out of our way in order to drop her off at her hotel, 
and I note in an email response to her email about the conference, agin in 2008, I expressed that I would pass 
her regards along to my wife and vice versa. When the University later informed me of the complaint I was 
shocked and concerned. When I spoke to the human resources person, including relating my concerns and 
providing the emails in question, I was told that no formal complaint of sexual harassment was deemed at that 
time to be called for, and that the young woman in question had agreed to that. By that time I learned of the 
complaint I had already announced my intentions to leave Case to accept an offer at ASU—a very difficult 
decision for me because of my long-standing attachment to the University, and the excellent relations I had with 
my colleagues there, both among the faculty and among the administration. Because I was already in Arizona 
at the time I was asked not to have any further interaction with the student I agreed to that request, both to 
respect her sensitivities and also because it was basically moot because I was not on campus. I was also told 
that because it was being handled informally, that (a) it should remain confidential, which I, at least abided by, 
and (b) if no further complaints were lodged in that case, that the University would remove the complaint from 
my record after 5 years, which makes me surprised that someone violated that written agreement with you. 
Re item 6: You report on ASU's response to item #6 , without including the fact that the University specifically 
stated there were never any allegations of sexual misconduct or harassment by me at the University, and 
morever the outside complaints were in fact related specifically to your item #6. Further you neglect to 
mention that this complaint was by an anonymous third party, not the individual who was allegedly harassed, 
who never lodged a complain, and that no specific evidence was provided of the alleged transgression. I was 
surprised and dismayed that both ASU and ANU launched investigations on the basis of this but was told by 
both Universities that because of my high profile even such unsubstantiated third party complaints at private 
events unrelated to the University would be investigated. The complaint was investigated throughly by both 
ASU and ANU and both came to the conclusion that it was not credible and no university policies had been 
violated.. In addition ANU's investigation, which took a full month found significant inconsistencies in the 
allegation, suggesting distortion and fabrication, I will quote from the ANU report. The initial complaint, which 
in fact resulted in a temporary suspension of my position at ANU, until it was dismissed, outlined the claim you 
made in the words you quoted in your note to me, but it also stated 
"It is the University's understanding that a complaint was lodged directly to the conference organisers at the 
time of the incident." 
After the month-long investigation, during which I was told I was not to interact with anyone on campus (again 
moot because I was a hemisphere removed) the final report absolved me of any wrongdoing, and indicated 
information inconsistent with the original claim and apparent later claims as follows in the report, from which I 
quote: 
"The allegations were made by an observer to the incident. 
- The complaint did not identify, nor disclose the identity of the conference attendee who was allegedly touched 
in 
an unwelcome manner. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031247 
- The conference attendee who took the `selfie' photo did not lodge a formal complaint to the conference 
organisers 
at the time of the incident (November 2016). 
- The conference attendee who witnessed the incident, did not lodge a formal complaint to the conference 
organisers 
at the time of the incident (November 2016). 
The photo submitted as part of the complaint does not provide evidence of any physical contact. 
- The complainant alleged that a photo exists, showing your hand on the breast of the conference attendee who 
took 
the `selfie' photo. This photo was not made available to the Australian National University, although it was 
requested 
in the course of the investigation." 
(And for the record I often put my hand up in front of a camera if there is a flash, as I specifically request selfies 
not to include flashes, so that I don't end up with a series bright spots in front of my eyes for the next half hour) 
What makes this particular type of allegation so repugnant is that I get asked for literally thousands of selfies, 
and when people come up to me they are vulnerable, often shaking, and sometimes overly aggressive. I am 
particularly proud of the way I attempt to make all people feel at ease, and respected, rather than humiliated. 
Thus, this false claim strikes at the heart of what I am about, which is to acknowledge fans in a way that makes 
them feel appreciated. As I understand you had a reporter watching me sign books and take selfies at the CFI 
conference in Las Vegas this year, that behavior is what they will have witnessed. Moreover, I am proud of the 
interactions I have had at both Case and ASU, with students, colleagues and staff of all genders and 
ethnicities. I have worked hard to support them, mentor them, and treat them with respect. I treat others as 
responsible adults, and I expect to be treated equally. 
Lawrence M. Krauss 
Director, The Origins Project at ASU 
Co-Director, Cosmology Initiative 
Foundation Professor 
School of Earth & Space Exploration and Physics Department 
Arizona State University,P.O. Box 871404, Tempe, AZ 85287-1404 
Research Office , Assistant 
Origins Office 
origins.asu.edu I twitter.corn/Ikraussl I krauss.faculty.asu.edu 
DM Origins 
PROJECT 
ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY 
On Dec 10, 2017, at 9:53 PM, Lawrence Krauss < wrote: 
First draft: 
It is hard to know how to respond to a list of false and/or distorted allegations, along with misleading statements 
on your part. Needless to say, I treat people I interact with with respect, and I work hard to support and mentor 
students, colleagues, and members of the general public. I do not sexually harass people. If the purpose of your 
reporting is to somehow argue that that Universities and other institutions are lax in dealing with well known 
individuals like myself, then in fact the situation is quite the opposite. My high public profile opens me up to 
more scrutiny at these institutions, not less, and it also opens me up to a host of outside complaints and 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031248 
allegations that other faculty do not receive, each of which the University has to respond to. The fact that I have 
remained a professor in all Universities with which I have been associated, in good standing, and also an officer 
or an invited speaker at organizations like CFI, which have strict harassment policies, is a confirmation of the 
fact that they trust my behavior. I was asked to be an honorary director of CFI, and invited to their last 3 
meetings to speak, specifically because, as they have written me after the fact, the attendees universally 
appreciated my talks, my courtesy, and graciousness in spending time with the attendees. If the purpose of your 
report is to impugn my integrity or suggest I have a history of harassment, that too is false. As noted in one of 
your 'miscellaneous facts', as a scientist I try and remain skeptical, and rely on empirical evidence, rather than 
allegations and innuendo. I also try and judge the facts in context. The fact that Universities and other 
organizations employ me or have me on their boards, or invite me to meetings is because they value my 
contributions and my actions. 
Your specific allegations are false or distorted. Item 1 refers to a consensual encounter in my hotel room in 
2006 where we mutually decided, in a polite discussion in fact, that taking it any further would not be 
appropriate, and had respectful encounters afterwards. I cannot comment on item 3, which involves an 
anonymous 3rd party claim, because I know nothing about it, and it was not taken seriously enough to result in 
any university action. Item 4 is confusing. Are you saying that because I decided I didn't want to go out to a 
bar with a group of attendees that I was harassing them? The second part is false. I don't do that. Re incident 
5: The 'female companion' in this case is my wife, who can attest to the fact that the claim is false, which is 
what I wrote in response to the blog in question, causing it to be taken down. 
It is worthwhile responding to Item 2 and 6 in more detail, 
Re item 2: the student in question was interested in science communication, and on dozens of occasions came 
to me or wrote to me with questions. When she asked about advice for after graduation I DID tell her she was 
different than the other students in her year. The rest of them were interested in going on to graduate school, 
but she was interested in science communication so I told her that she might want to take a different path. Since 
she was the only woman in her year, as I recall, I did ask her on one of these occasions if that made it difficult 
for her in any way. I asked, because as a faculty member I was interested, and also because as someone she had 
asked for career advice from I wanted to know if that made a difference to her. Re asking her for dinner.. I have 
gone back over emails from that period. I have numerous requests from her to go for coffee to talk, which I 
usually had to turn down because I was busy, including several occasions where she asked me to have coffee 
with her off campus to talk, and I politely declined. I did let her accompany me off campus one time to watch 
me do a BBC interview because she specifically requested it. I did and do have coffee and meals with students 
on campus, and I see nothing wrong with this. I was shocked when I later learned of her complaint, not least 
because there was no inappropriate interaction and also because well after the date on which she is said to have 
been offended, she continued to email me with joking questions or comments, and at a AAAS conference in 
2008, for which she had asked, and for which I had written her a letter of recommendation to attend, my wife 
and I gave her a lift well out out of our way to drop her off at her hotel, and I note in an email response to her 
email about the conference, agin in 2008, I expressed that I would pass her regards along to my wife and vice 
versa. When the University informed me of the complaint I was shocked and concerned. When I spoke to 
the human resources person, including relating my concerns and providing the emails in question, I was told 
that no formal complaint of sexual harassment was deemed to be warranted in this case, and that the young 
woman in question had agreed to that. By that time I learned of the complaint I had already announced my 
intentions to leave Case to accept an offer at ASU—a very difficult decision for me because of my long-
standing attachment to the University, and the excellent relations I had with my colleagues there, both among 
the faculty and among the administration. Because I was already in Arizona at the time I was asked not to have 
any further interaction with the student I agreed to that request because it was basically moot. I was also told 
that because it was being handled informally, that (a) it should remain confidential, which I, at least abided by, 
and (b) if no further complaints were lodged in that case, that the University would remove the allegation from 
my record after 5 years, which makes me surprised that someone violated that written agreement with you. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031249 
Re item 6: You report on ASU's response to item #6 , without including the fact that the University specifically 
stated there were never any allegations of sexual misconduct or harassment by me at the University, and the 
outside complaints were in fact related specifically to your item #6. Further you neglect to mention that this 
complaint was by an anonymous third party, not the individual who was allegedly harassed, who never lodged a 
complain, and that no specific evidence was provided of the alleged transgression. I was surprised and 
dismayed that both ASU and ANU launched investigations on the basis of this but was told by both Universities 
that because of my high profile even such unsubstantiated third party complaints at private events unrelated to 
the University would be investigated. The complaint was investigated throughly by both ASU and ANU and 
both came to the conclusion that it was not credible and no university policies had been violated. . In addition 
ANU's investigation, which took a full month found significant inconsistencies in the allegation, suggesting 
distortion and fabrication, I will quote from the ANU report. The initial complaint, which in fact resulted in a 
temporary suspension by ANU outlined the claim you made in the words you quoted in your note to me, along 
with the statement made in the complaint that 
"It is the University's understanding that a complaint was lodged directly to the conference organisers at the 
time of the incident." 
After the investigation, the final report absolved me of any wrongdoing, and indicated information inconsistent 
with the original claim and apparent later claims as follows: 
"The allegations were made by an observer to the incident. 
- The complaint did not identify, nor disclose the identity of the conference attendee who was allegedly touched in 
an unwelcome manner. 
- The conference attendee who took the selfie' photo did not lodge a formal complaint to the conference organisers 
at the time of the incident (November 2016). 
- The conference attendee who witnessed the incident, did not lodge a formal complaint to the conference organisers 
at the time of the incident (November 2016). 
The photo submitted as part of the complaint does not provide evidence of any physical contact. 
- The complainant alleged that a photo exists, showing your hand on the breast of the conference attendee who took 
the selfie' photo. This photo was not made available to the Australian National University, although it was requested 
in the course of the investigation." 
(And for the record I often put my hand up in front of a camera if there is a flash, as I specifically request selfies not to include flashes, 
so that I don't end up with a series bright spots in front of my eyes for the next half hour) 
What makes this particular type of allegation so repugnant is that I get asked for literally thousands of selfies, and when people come 
up to me they are vulnerable, often shaking, and sometimes overly aggressive. I am particularly proud of the way I attempt to make all 
people feel at ease, and respected, rather than humiliated. Thus, this false claim strikes at the heart of what I am about, which is to 
acknowledge fans in a way that makes them feel appreciated. As I understand you had a reporter watching me sign books and take 
selfies at the CFI conference in Las Vegas this year, that behavior is what they will have witnessed. Moreover, I am proud of the 
interactions I have had at both Case and ASU, with students, colleagues and staff. I have had numerous female graduate students, 
postdocs, employees, and colleagues, and as ASU attested to you, none of these have ever complained of harassment. Quite the 
contrary in fact, as I have worked hard to support them, mentor them, and treat them with respect. I treat others as responsible adults, 
and I expect to be treated equally. 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Peter Aldhous <,_______________________________________________________________________
Subject: URGENT: BuzzFeed News inquiry re allegations of sexual harassment 
Date: December 10, 2017 at 5:12:27 PM PST 
To 
Dr. Krauss: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031250 
As you know, I'm a reporter for BuzzFeed News who has been investigating sexual misconduct allegations 
against you. As we've already discussed by email, I'd very much like to interview you about these allegations in 
detail. 
In particular, you stated in an email sent on Nov 13 that two universities had investigated an incident (# 6 
below). You claimed that "both Universities independently concluded that the report was unsubstantiated and 
fabricated with malicious intent." We are not aware that either university concluded fabrication or malicious 
intent, so if you have evidence to support this assertion, we would like to see and discuss it. 
The story concerns your actions towards students while a professor of physics at Case Western Reserve 
University, as well as your conduct in non-academic settings as a prominent figure in the skeptics movement. I 
am reporting this story along with two of my colleagues on the science desk, Azeen Ghorayshi and Virginia 
Hughes. 
Our story is about several allegations of sexual misconduct dating from 2006 to 2016 (see full details below). 
Our reporting also goes into how the various institutions you have been affiliated with — Case Western, 
Arizona State University, the Australian National University, the New College of the Humanities, and the Center 
for Inquiry, for which you serve as an honorary member of the board of directors — have handled complaints 
and concerns about your behavior during this time. 
Our story is corroborated by emails, university documents, official complaints, testimony from victims and 
eyewitnesses, and interviews with more than two dozen of your current and former academic colleagues, 
students, and peers in the skeptics movement. 
I wanted to offer you the opportunity to comment and/or respond to the main facts we plan to publish. If you 
wish to comment on any of the below findings, we need to hear from you as soon as possible. We are 
planning on publishing our story Tuesday morning, Eastern US Time. 
Based on our reporting, this is what we plan to publish: 
Incident 1: 
• In November of 2006, at an event launching the new Center for Inquiry in Washington D.C., you met a 
volunteer for CFI D.C. 
• At the event, you asked for her business card. Later, you followed her as she was leaving and asked 
her if she was "of age." 
• Later, you emailed her to invite her to dinner. 
• You planned to dine with her in the restaurant at the Washington D.C. hotel where you were staying. 
• You told her to come up to your room first because you needed to finish some work. 
• In your hotel room, you seemed in no rush to leave. You ordered a cheese plate, and later champagne, 
despite her suggestion that you go down to dinner. 
• You then made a comment about her eye makeup, getting very close to her face. 
• You then lifted her by her arms, and pushed her onto the bed beneath you, forcibly kissing her and 
trying to pull down the crotch of her tights. 
• She struggled to push you off her. 
• You said, "When I was in college I could never get a girl that looked like you." 
• When you pulled out a condom, she got out from under you. She said "I have to go," and rushed out of 
the room. 
Incident 2: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031251 
• In an incident that occurred in fall of 2007 while you were a physics professor at Case Western Reserve 
University, a student tried to talk to you about her plans after graduation. You mentioned to her how tough it 
must be to have all the other physics majors asking her out on dates. 
• In a second incident in December of 2007, while you were still at Case Western, the same student 
visited your office to interview you for a student science journal. You closed the door behind her, and ignored 
the questions she had prepared. Then you made a casual comment about taking her out for dinner. 
• Later, in a regular column for the school paper, she described her experiences with you, without 
mentioning you by name. "There was even one particular creep of a professor who once told me he thought 
differently of me compared to other students and asked me to dinner: a situation so disturbing that it left me 
upset for weeks afterward," she wrote. 
• She was then approached by a dean at the university, who suspected that she was referring to you, 
based on a previously reported incident with another student. He encouraged her to make a complaint, and 
she did. 
• University investigators interviewed both you and the student. 
• On September 4, 2008, Susan Nickel-Schindewolf, the university's associate vice president for student 
affairs, wrote to the student, telling her that the investigation was complete. She wrote that you had been told: 
"This type of behavior could constitute sexual harassment in violation of the university's sexual harassment 
policy. 
• The letter also stated that you were prohibited from making contact with the student as long as she 
remained at Case. 
• The letter also stated that you are required to get approval from the dean or the chair of the physics 
department before setting foot on the campus again. 
• The letter also stated, "Dr. Krauss expressed regret about having a negative impact on you, and also 
his willingness to use this complaint as an opportunity to reflect and improve on his future interactions with 
students." 
• By then, you had already left Case, taking up your current position at Arizona State University the 
month before. 
• "The opportunities being offered at ASU are simply too great to turn down at this stage in my career," 
you told Case colleagues, in an email announcing your departure on April 16, 2008. 
Incident 3: 
• A former Case Western physics department administrator confirmed that she had reported a previous 
incident involving a student who had confided in her about your inappropriate behavior towards her. 
Incident 4: 
• You met a student from another university, an atheist activist, in March 2008 at the American Atheists 
Convention in Minneapolis. She wanted to expand the atheist group she ran at the midwestern university she 
was attending, and hoped to convince you to come and speak. You initially seemed enthusiastic. 
• During the convention, attendees including you and Richard Dawkins went for dinner with the student 
and volunteers for Dawkins' foundation. 
• Afterwards, the student invited you to join the volunteers for a drink. 
• You asked her to come get you in your hotel room. She was wary of your intentions, and so brought a 
male friend with her. Opening the door to find them both there, you informed her you had decided not to go. 
• You met this student again at the American Atheists Convention in Des Moines, Iowa, in April 2011. 
• 
table. 
You pulled over a chair for her in the bar, and then started running your hand up her leg under the 
• She tried to shift her body away from you, and you persisted in putting your hand on her leg. She 
crossed her legs, and you kept trying. Then she turned her entire body away. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031252 
Incident 5: 
• This incident allegedly occurred on in May 2011 on a CFI cruise. We understand that CFI staff were 
informed that you had propositioned a female cruise-goer, who rejected an invitation to join you and your 
female companion for sex in your cabin. 
• At least two CFI staffers were sufficiently concerned about reports of your behavior that they urged 
CFI's president not to invite you on a 2014 cruise of the Galapagos Islands. You were invited on that cruise, 
however. 
Incident 6: 
• During a visit to Melbourne, Australia, in November 2016, you were accused of sexual misconduct once 
again. 
• The incident happened at a dinner held at the Melbourne Zoo as part of the Australian Skeptics  
National Convention, where you were a featured speaker. 
• With conference delegates chatting over drinks, a woman asked you for a celebrity selfie. 
• As the woman held out her phone to take the picture, you reached over her shoulder and grabbed her 
right breast. 
• She immediately reacted, bodychecking you and spinning around. "Don't do that," she said. 
• BuzzFeed News has seen the complaint made by another woman to ASU, ANU, and the New College 
of the Humanities in London, including the selfie, her face obscured to conceal her identity. It shows your hand 
in motion as a blur in front of her shoulder, apparently moving toward her chest. Two other eyewitnesses have 
confirmed the complainant's account of what happened. 
• In April 2017, the complainant described the incident on her blog. After hearing more about your 
reputation for inappropriate behavior from blog readers, she decided to file a complaint about the Nov. 2016 
incident. 
• On July 16, she filed formal complaints with Arizona State University, and with the Australian National 
University in Canberra and the New College of the Humanities in London, where you have visiting 
appointments. 
• Both Arizona State and the Australian National University told her they would look into the matter. But 
neither university found against you. 
• "Based on the material available to the University, we do not have sufficient evidence to substantiate 
the allegations," Kiaran Kirk, dean of the College of Science at the Australian National University, wrote to her. 
• Erin Ellison, who heads Arizona State's Office of Equity & Inclusion, wrote to her explaining that an 
inquiry "did not find a violation of university policy." 
• In October, Arizona State denied a request from BuzzFeed News for documents relating to complaints 
of sexual harassment against you. However, Cynthia Jewett, the university's senior associate general counsel, 
noted that two individuals, neither affiliated with the university, had complained about you. "The University did 
not find either communication to state a credible allegation," Jewett wrote. 
Miscellaneous facts: 
• In 2008, you founded the Origins Project at Arizona State University in Tempe, a multidisciplinary effort 
to understand the origins of the universe, life, and social systems. You have led that effort ever since. 
• Thanks to best-selling books like The Physics of Star Trek and A Universe From Nothing, frequent 
essays in publications including the New Yorker and the New York Times, and the documentary you made with 
biologist Richard Dawkins, called The Unbelievers, you are celebrated as one of America's leading public 
intellectuals. 
• You served on the science policy committee for Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign and are a 
vocal critic of President Donald Trump. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031253 
• You also make regular public appearances across the world, often at gatherings of skeptics and 
atheists. 
• At CSICon in Las Vegas in October, a few dozen fans paid $500 per head to attend a VIP luncheon 
with you and Dawkins. 
• Many more lined up to get you to sign their copy of your latest book, The Greatest Story Ever Told — 
So Far. 
• Online, people can buy T-shirts emblazoned "Lawrence Krauss for President." 
• In talks and interviews, you have argued that our universe arose without divine intervention, that 
religion drives xenophobia, and that our brains are hardwired to believe. 
• You have stated that science provides answers to many of life's biggest questions, and can even fix 
great societal injustices. 
• Earlier this year, at a Q&A event to promote your new book, the conversation came around to the 
dearth of women and minorities in science. "Science itself overcomes misogyny and prejudice and bias," you 
said. "It's built in: Questioning yourself, always questioning results, questioning others, relying on empirical 
evidence." 
• You have clashed with some skeptics over your defense of Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire financier who in 
2008 was convicted for soliciting prostitution from underage girls, and spent 13 months in a Florida jail. 
• Through his private foundation, Epstein has funded the work of several prominent scientists. He has 
provided funding for your Origins Project, supporting lectureship and scholarship programs, most recently 
pledging $100,000 in 2014. 
• In April 2011, you told the Daily Beast: "As a scientist I always judge things on empirical evidence and 
he always has women ages 19 to 23 around him, but I've never seen anything else, so as a scientist, my 
presumption is that whatever the problems were I would believe him over other people." 
• In a blog comment about the Epstein controversy, you wrote: "I remain skeptical, and I support a man 
whose character I believe I know.. .If you want to condemn me for that, so be it." 
• You were made an honorary member of CFI's board of directors in December 2011. 
• A blog post published in August 2013 described incidents #1 and #4, naming you. Another post, 
published at around the same time, described incident #5. 
• The first post was edited to remove your name after you had commented that the allegations of assault 
were "potentially illegal." The second post was quickly taken down. 
Again, if you wish to comment on or clarify any of these points, please get in touch with us as soon as possible. 
If I do not respond immediately it is because I am on another call, so please leave the best phone number to 
reach you. 
Thanks, 
11111 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031254 
