From: Al seckel 
Sent: 12/16/2010 9:28:38 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Latest screen shot 
Importance: High 
This is the latest screenshot. Mike managed to knock out daily beast again. She is a pain and very very persistent. We 
managed to push Huffington post down near bottom and is about to be pushed off, but it would take a bit more 
work, and again, you have your active detractors out there. Just the way it is. 
On the second page, we have replaced 8 toxic references with good ones, and there are four toxic ones left, which 
were pushed off the first page. 
The science and org sites would have been placed higher if there was new content created and added. 
Mike, however, is stopping work now on the project. 
We need to talk about island asap, as they are bugging me for logistics. 
Thanks. 
me 
Web Images Videos Maps News Shopping Gmail more v  
Advanced search 
About 327,000 results (0.20 seconds) 
Search Results 
1. Jeffrey Epstein - Wikipedia, the  
free encyclopedia  
Jeffrey Edward Epstein (born January 
20, 1953 in Coney Island, New York) is a 
Jewish-American financier and 
philanthropist. Epstein was raised in 
Coney ... 
Philanthrophic Work The Epstein 
Foundation - Promotion of Scientists 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeffrey_Epstein - 
Cached - Similar 
2. Images for jeffrey epstein  
- Report images 
Web History I Search settings I Sign in  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022207 
Atc 
3. Jeffrey Epstein: International  
Moneyman of Mystery  
He's pals with a passel of Nobel Prize—
winning scientists, CEOs like Leslie 
Wexner of the Limited, socialite 
Ghislaine Maxwell, even Donald Trump. 
nymag.com/nymetro/news/people/n_791 
2/ - Cached - Similar 
4. Jeffrey Epstein I Profiles in  
Science  
Jeffrey Epstein presents some of the 
greatest minds and finest scientists 
working today. 
www.jeffreyepsteinscience.com/ - Cach 
5. Jeffrey Epstein on Sports  
An old school look at today's sport's 
world focusing on professional basketball 
and football byJeffrey Epstein. 
www.jeffreyepsteinsports.com/ - Cache 
6. Jeffrey Epstein, MD, FACS,  
Miami, New York Hair Transplant  
Surgeon  
Dr. Epstein and the hair transplant 
surgeons at the Foundation for Hair 
Restoration are experts in the field of hair 
restoration. Dr. Epstein is one of the ... 
www.foundhair.com/pages/about.shtml  
Cached - Similar 
7. Jeffrey Epstein I Philanthropy  
Jeffrey Epstein has three main 
philanthropic and charitable 
organizations he uses to fund arts, 
sciences, research and other causes. 
www.jeffreyepstein.org/ - Cached 
8. About Jeffrey Epstein  
Jeffrey Epstein is a financial mogul, 
hedge fund manager and philanthropist. 
www.jeffreyepstein.org/aboutjeffreyeps 
tein.html - Cached 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022208 
Show more results from 
jeffreyepstein.org 
9. Edge: JEFFREY EPSTEIN  
JEFFREY E. EPSTEIN is a money 
manager and science philanthropist who 
currently serves as the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer of the Financial 
Trust ... 
www.edge.org/3rd culture/bios/epstein. 
html - Cached - Similar 
10. Jeffrey Epstein, Convicted  
Pedophile And Former Hedge Fund  
Titan ...  
Jul 21, 2010 ... Jeffrey Epstein, the 
former hedge fund manager who 
pleaded guilty to soliciting an underage 
girl for prostitution, is now free of the ... 
www.huffingtonpost.com/.../jeffrey-
epstein-
disgraced_n_654674.html - Cached 
11. Dr. Jeffrey Epstein, MD,  
FACS I Board Certified Plastic  
Surgeon ...  
Dr. Jeffrey Epstein has been in solo 
private practice in Miami since 1994, and 
New York City since 2005, and is a 
Clinical Professor at the University of ... 
www.justformenplasticsurdery.com/Abou  
tDrEpstein.asp - Cached - Similar 
Searches related t 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022209 
