4 The Virgin Islands Daily News 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Wednesday, July 3, 2019 
Where are the Eein records? 
ITtiajrnji Lill! :ler WN  subsequently filed, but ti. courtpst ho yd Marra ord.. the government and 
to malce a final ruling attorneys for the victims to come up 
The Miami Herald - one of the in- with remedies to address the federal 
Three months have passed since a tervenors in the case - has submitted violation. 
judicial panel in New York h.rd azgu- a leaer to die court urging the judges to U.S. Attorney Byung Pak responded 
ments to unseal documents that could follow tkough on the case in the wake last week, saying that Epstein's victims 
reveal whether federal prosectaors of a controversial .Itttice Department are free to express their dithleasure 
covered up evi.nce that New York fi- decision last week. In a 35-page mo- about what prosecutors did, but they 
nanc. Jeffrey Epstein and others were tion, filed June2;e4.,dfttet rtta,leprse.. cutors have no right under the law to demand 
limning an underage sex trafficldng in eorglad ec.a y not anything from die government - 
opFation not 
:aside Epstein, federal non-prosecu- even an apology. h. h, the 
Sant. L. Muer, the Miami Her. 
United Sta. It Georgienta decision dealt another Ad, aaorney, said that Pak, decision 
Court of Appeals Now to Epstein, victOis who have lighlights the pressing need for the New 
. the Second Cir- been fighting for a de.de to have the York appeals court to expedite unsealing 
cuit seem. poised deal drown out a. to p.sure die the documents in Mowed', case. 
to release some .Itttice Department to prosecute die That case is a 2015 defamation law-
documents in the 669e000k1 multimillionaire on sec suit filed against Maxwell, the daughter 
case. The records trafficking charges. ft also means that of die late British media mogul Robert 
involve Epstein, the Justice Department has no intention Maxvved Maxwell, now 57 and an ow, 
one-timO patine, of allowir Epstein, victims and die ronmentalist, has been accused of assist-
Ghislaine Max- Jeffrey Epstein public to examine die facts of E.tein, ing Epstein in die trafficking of under-
well, who has been case and reach their own conclusions, age gi. and your women to powerful 
accused of helping him recruit and sex- the Her. azgu. in the letter. and wealthy politicians, lawyers, scie. 
ually exploit gido and young women In February, a federal judge in nor- tists and businessmen. 
in various locations around the Unit. ida, Kenneth A. Marra, rtded in die She has denied the allegations and has 
Stat. and abroad in the late 1990s and victims' faVOr, ooyiog that die gthern- never been charged with any crim.. 
early 2000s. mera violated the Crime Victims' Right The Herald, lawyer contends that 
The appeals panel gave all parties in Act when it failed to inform Epstein, die Justice Depar.ent, decision hg 
the case until March 29 to file addition- victims that prosecutors had secredy 
A pleadings. Several challengoo were dispos. of the case. 
Zeulec.sshtntIva:thpeureTcLittcaa 
„,..) STUDENT. 
LEADER. 
SOLDIER. 
I n the Army National Guard, 
you can be all three. 
(833) 340 -1973 
nationalguard.com 
ity and, therefore, it, more urgent than settled in 2017.4 contingent of odier 
ever that the Maxwell case be made media companies, a conservative social 
media blogger and Epstein, lawyer, 
..[Pak,] submission malc. clear that Alan Derthowitz, are oho seeking to 
access to the document that [die Her- have the Maxwell case ma. public. 
ald and other parties] seek in [the Max- The .famation case was filed against 
well] matter remains an issue of critical Maxwell by Virg.a Roberts Giuffre, 
public concern,” Bauer wrote in a let- who claims the was recruit. by Mu-
ter to Catherine O'Hagan Wolfe, clerk well when she was 16 and working as 
of the court for the appeals panel. He a spa attendant at Mar-a-Lago, Trump, 
said the government ..essentially argues lavith courary club in Pahn B.ch In 
that Epstein, victims are not entitled to court papers, she daimed that Epstein 
any meaningful r.ress, including par- and Maxwell directed her to have sec 
tial rescission, declaratory relief and with public figures. In a sworn affida-
specific injunctive relief requested." vit, she has named Prince Andrew and 
In 2008, the FBI had identified near- Dershowitz as among those she had sex 
ly tiree dozen underage victims who with when she was underage. Both the 
were allegedly lured to Epstein, man- prince and the famed lawyer have de-
sion in Pa. Beath under the .1:text ni. her claims. 
that he would pay diem for massages. Dershowitz want the Maxwell case 
The girls, mostly 1310 16 years old made public beuse he says that the 
were groom. by Epstein and others documents will exonerate h.. Also 
l'ici::Zicd'irkielidmfciran tecr'se, party to the appeal is social media blog-
ger Michael Cernovich. 
showed. Based on the court filings, the case is 
In November, the Miami Herald believ. to contain a range of evi.nce, 
publish. an inv.tigation that exam- including t.timony from other pos-
in. how then-Miami U.S. Aaomey sible underage victims who were aaf-
Alexander Acosta negotiat. a secret fic.d. All parti. in the case, including 
non-prosecution agreement that re- the Herald, hoe agreed to redact the 
sult. in Epstein receivir an extraor- nam. of minors and other details that 
thnarily light sentence. would identify victims. 
Acosta, who is now President Maxwell is the sole party fighting to 
Donald Trump, labor secret, keep the ertire record sealed.TWo other 
ensurod that the agreement was currently toidentifi. people, labeft 
seal. so that no one - not even the themselv. as Jolui Do., have fil. 
victims - would .ow tile scope legal briefs in an 000090 10 conceal 
of Epstein, crimes or who was in- personal information that could con-
li0 
volv.. Epstein, lawyers worked to- nect them to die alleged underage sec 
gether with prosecutors to limit pub- trafficking operation. 
scruti,y of the case, and arranged° Epstein, who was not party to the 
the:gtec's ?Inet taltYe Pc loeuarl, Maxwell suit, has deni. that he ran 
a sex traffichng operation, and his at-
ald seri. reveal.. tomeys say that the number of victims 
The handling of the case is nom under involv. has been-vastly exaggerated" 
investigation by the Department ofJustice. by the media. 
As part 01 160 Herald, series, the In addition to Florida and N.Y., Ep-
newspper went to court in 2018 to stein liv. on Liale St. James Island off 
unseal the Maxwell case, which was St Thomas. 
• Passport PM. 
• Imorton Pholokos 
• Driver's License P 
• NlockBedge 
• Image Pestebon 
DO YOU NEED A 
PROFESSIONAL 
HEADSHOT 
PICTURE FOR 
WORK, TRAVEL, 
OR DRIVING? 
HUGHES PHOTO 
Sunny Isle Shopping Center. St Croix • (340) 778-6827 
