From: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 2/10/2015 5:22:52 PM 
To: Mortimer Zuckerman 
Subject: time to publish this instead ofthe trite. 
ore 
15 of 141,013 
Fwd: Statement for Press 
From: Carolyn Cohen 
Date: February 10, 2015 at 10:40:57 AM EST 
To: Alan Dershowitz ______________________ 
Subject: Statement for Press 
Alan Dershowitz's Statement: We can now prove that Jane Doe #3 has no credibility and lied  
about Clinton, the Gores and Dershowitz.  
Dershowitz's lawyers have filed a detailed reply to Jane Doe #3 false charges. In it they definitively 
respond to all of the alleged evidence presented by Jane Doe #3 and her lawyers. Since that filing Mr. 
Dershowitz's lawyers have uncovered additional evidence that Jane Doe #3 has lied about her 
alleged contacts with fonner President Clinton and former Vice President Gore and the then Mrs. 
Gore. In her first affidavit to the court she repeats the claim that she had earlier sold to a British 
tabloid: namely that "former President Bill Clinton was present on the island [Jeffrey Epstein's 
private island] at a time when [Jane Doe #3] was also present on the Island." 
This statement, sworn under oath, summarizes a far more elaborate fantasy that she sold to a British 
tabloid which has since been repeated by the international media. In neither statement, does she 
provide any specific dates or times, but she does weave an imaginative fantasy about her fictional 
meeting with former President Clinton. She "describes" how Mr. Clinton's Secret Service detail 
allowed Ghislaine Maxwell, then a novice helicopter pilot, to fly the former President to Epstein's 
private island on a large black helicopter — an obvious lie. She then purports to "describe" specific 
seating locations at a fictional dinner party that included her, Mr. Clinton, Jeffrey Epstein and two 
other underage "olive-skinned brunettes" whose identities she could not provide: 
"I flew to the Caribbean with Jeffrey and then Ghislaine Maxwell went to pick up Bill in a huge black 
helicopter that Jeffrey had bought her. She'd always wanted to fly and Jeffrey paid for her to take 
lessons, and I remember she was very excited because she got her licence around the first year we 
met. I used to get frightened flying with her but Bill had the Secret Service with him and I remember 
him talking about what a good job she did. I only ever met Bill twice but Jeffrey had told me that 
they were good friends. I asked, "How come?" and he laughed and said, "He owes me some 
favours." Maybe he was just joking but it constantly surprised me that people with as much to lose as 
Bill and [Prince] Andrew weren't more careful. She said that when dining that night, Maxwell sat at 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029225 
President Clinton's left, while they were joined by two 'olive-skinned brunettes' who had been flown 
in from New York... 
I'd never met them before. I'd say they were no older than 17, very innocent-looking. 
They weren't there for me. They weren't there for Jeffrey or Ghislaine because I was there to have sex 
with Jeffrey on the trip. 
Maybe Jeffrey thought they would entertain Bill, but I saw no evidence that he was interested in 
them. He and Jeffrey and Ghislaine seemed to have a very good relationship. Bill was very funny. 
He made me laugh a few times. And he and Jeffrey and Ghislaine told blokey jokes and the brunettes 
listened politely and giggled. 
After dinner I gave Jeffrey an erotic massage. I don't remember seeing Bill again on the trip but I 
assume Ghislaine flew him back..." 
Jane Doe #3 also concocted another meeting with a powerful political figure for the British tabloid, 
this time claiming to have met former Vice President Gore and his then wife, Tipper, on the same 
Island, again providing no specific dates or times, but only personal interest details designed to 
enhance the value of her fictional account 
"[Jane Doe #3} disclosed that Mr Clinton's vice-president Al Gore and his wife, Tipper, were also 
guests of Epstein on his island... 'I had no clue that anything was up,' [Jane Doe #3] says. 'The Gores 
seemed like a beautiful couple when I met them. All I knew was that Mr Gore was a friend of 
Jeffrey's and Ghislaine's. Jeffrey didn't ask me to give him a massage... There might have been a 
couple of other girls there on that trip but I could never have imagined this guy would do anything 
wrong. I was planning to vote for him when I turned 18. I thought he was awesome." 
These fabrications, which are obvious on their face, could easily have been determined to be false by 
any reasonable investigation. Our investigation has turned up evidence that Mr. Clinton was never 
on Mr. Epstein's island, that neither Mr. Gore, nor his former wife, have ever been on the island, and 
that Mr. and Mrs. Gore do not even know Mr. Epstein. Jane Doe #3's salaciously detailed accounts, 
sold for money to a tabloid are made up and were purposely designed to titillate the interests of 
readers eager for such salacious material. Jane Doe #3's even more salacious "descriptions" of her 
alleged sexual encounters with Dershowitz are also fabricated. 
If it turns out that Jane Doe #3 deliberately lied about seeing former President Clinton on the island, 
she would be guilty of perjury. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029226 
Mr. Dershowitz's legal team has uncovered additional evidence, which it is in the process of 
verifying, that proves a pattern of lying and false accusations that casts even further doubt on Jane 
Doe #3's credibility. This evidence will be disclosed once it has been confirmed by their 
investigation. 
Web Clip 
ESPN.com - Sources: 
Sherman avoids  
surgery, for now - 25 
minutes ago 
Inbox 
x 
11:46 AM (1 hour ago) 
Alan Dershowitz 
to Darren, me, Martin 
El 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029227 
