HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH 
Barker Center - 12 Quincy Street - Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 
ELISA NEW 
Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature 
Dear Woody, 
Tel: 
Fax 
As I know Jeffrey has told you, I really enjoyed our conversation on the plane last spring about William 
Carlos Williams's "This Is Just to Say." You offered a reading of the poem that seemed to me 
completely persuasive and plausible and, yet, also, one that is not strictly dictated or delimited by the 
lines themselves. These are lines that seem to me unusually open to divergent readings-- including, for 
instance, a reading much more coaxing and seductive; another, much more defensive and manipulative; 
another, much more about language itself as a mode of sharing. I left our conversation wanting to 
explore with you the aggressive (or maybe mock aggressive) reading you gave, as well as the way this 
poem, perhaps more than many, sustains so many readings. You helped me think about Williams's 
poem as it seems in some ways more like a "script" than a poem, a poem written in such a way as to be 
turned by different voices in different directions, a poem that might even be "directed" by the reader. I'd 
love to hear you read the poem again and, if you are willing, to discuss it a bit with me on camera for my 
upcoming Massive Open Online Course on American poetry. 
To remind you, the course I'm working on is Poetry in America, one of three Humanities courses that 
will be launched internationally by edX in the next 18 months. This free course will allow students of all 
ages around the world to immerse themselves in the history, the art, and the interpretation of American 
poetry. Using state of the art tools, the course will combine text, video, audio, archival materials, on site 
historical narrative and interactive features, and it will have a companion book that docks with it. (I'm 
writing that book now.) 
As I'm asking you here, I am inviting other distinguished Americans to do short cameo readings and, 
when they are willing, short discussions of the poem with me. Those who have already done tapings, or 
have agreed to participate, include Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan, Harvard President Drew 
Faust, performer and activist Eve Ensler, journalist Michael Pollan, Tour de France champion Greg 
Lemond, professor and PBS personality Henry Lewis Gates, (my husband!) Larry Summers, Rabbi 
Moshe Waldoks, poet Martin Espada, playwright Tony Kushner, and Boston Mayor Thomas Menino. 
We are now reaching out to Bill Clinton, Matt Damon, Natalie Portman, and John McCain, among 
others, and feel confident that many will agree. I'm very much hoping that you will agree to join this 
distinguished group. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029543 
The poem I'm hoping you would read is one that we discussed, William Carlos Williams's iconic poem 
"This Is Just to Say." The poem is copied below. There are, naturally, commentaries on it I could share, 
if you wanted to read some, but you seem to have already thought about it quite a bit. 
This Is Just to Say 
I have eaten 
the plums 
that were in 
the icebox 
and which 
you were probably 
saving 
for breakfast 
Forgive me 
they were delicious 
so sweet 
and so cold 
Logistically, we are at your service. I would be happy to film you when I visit New York on October 
24th. Or, I would love it if you would come visit Larry and me in Boston with Jeffrey. We could show 
you and Soon Yi around Harvard, eat a big bowl of plums, and talk poetry. I would introduce you on 
camera and you'd read, or recite, and we'd perhaps talk about the poem for a moment. 
Thank you very much for considering this proposal. I admire you immensely and would feel honored to 
bring you into this project. 
Best, 
Lisa New 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029544 
