From: Steve Bannon [ 
Sent: 3/11/2018 7:39:40 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fwd: Filed: German Media Confess to Underestimating Steve Bannon; He Is 'As Dangerous as Ever' 
Importance: High 
Germans get it 
Begin forwarded message: 
Resent-From: 
From: "Thomas D. Williams" <11111> 
Date: March 11, 2018 at 5:13:03 PM GMT+1 
To: Raheem Kassam <EM 
>, Alexander Marlow < 
<>., Adrienne Ross <111> 
Subject: Filed: German Media Confess to Underestimating Steve Bannon; He Is 'As Dangerous as Ever' 
Oliver Lane 
, Frances Martel 
German Media Confess to 
Underestimating Steve 
Bannon; He Is 'As Dangerous 
as Ever' 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025517 
by THOMAS D. WILLIAMS, PH.D.11 Mar 201.-
0 
As Steve Bannon continues his tour of Europe, energizing the anti-
establishment populist base, the mainstream media cannot help but 
admit their admiration for his abilities, despite their dislike of his aims. 
In this week's issue, the left-wing German weekly Stern articulates the greatest fear of the European 
establishment: that Bannon "could give the fragmented right in Europe a common ideology and rhetoric." 
Many thought that the reign of the "Dark Lord" had ended, writes Gernot Kramper, when Steve Bannon left 
first the White House and then his role as executive chairman of Breitbart News. It turns out, however, that 
Bannon's adversaries had underestimated him, because he is "as dangerous as ever," he confesses. 
Kramper cannot conceal his respect for Bannon's ability to move a crowd. He was greeted by "frenetic 
applause" in his recent address before France's National Front party, Kramper writes, demonstrating his 
"impressive potential," which the writer describes as "dangerous." 
In the mind of his audience, Bannon is something of a miracle-worker, Stamper notes, having "done the 
impossible" by bringing Donald Trump into the White House. 
The reason Bannon is dangerous, Kramper continues, is because he "lays out the political program of a 
worldwide right: He has already conquered the USA; now Europe and then the whole world will follow." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025518 
"You are part of a worldwide movement that is bigger than France, bigger than Italy, bigger than Hungary, 
bigger than all that," Bannon told French populists. 
Bannon showed that he "dominates the mood against the 'elites,' the 'establishment' and the 'perverse system' 
of greedy corporations and banks, and of course also against the press, which is led around 'like a dog on the 
Leash," Stamper writes. 
And now he Mr. Bannon setting himself up as an instigator, if not an outright shepherd, of a movement that 
crosses borders, languages and parties. 
"Bannon is a master of apocalyptic rhetoric," Stamper continues, effortlessly weaving together nationalist 
interests with an international populist movement. 
The American strategist showed his "true caliber" by expounding modern methods of political freedom through 
blockchain technologies and cryptocurrencies, Stamper said, leaving many of his hearers behind. Bannon has 
demonstrated that if the right wants to rule the future, "it must dominate modern themes and rhetorically 
position them," he added. 
Aspiring to be far more than an uncle who tells stories to his nephews of how he won the fight for the White 
House, Stamper writes, "Bannon wants to become the super godfather of the international right." 
Although Bannon often looks a bit disheveled, "he should not be underestimated," the writer warns. Past 
business partners attribute impressive "strategic foresight" to the eccentric tactician, saying he was often "three 
or four steps ahead" of his opponents in business. Because of his phenomenal memory, his nickname is "the 
encyclopedia," Stamper notes with a certain reverence, and in his speeches he will spontaneously cite "forgotten 
thinkers, known only to a handful of specialists." 
"Bannon brings with him exclusive knowledge of power from the very heart of power," Stamper writes, which 
he will bring to bear on Europe's fragmented populist populism. 
According to Stamper, Bannon has established his "European headquarters" in Italy, from where he intends to 
galvanize European populists. 
The Italian political situation is completely to his liking, Stamper declares, with a political landscape 
"dominated by populists, right-wing ideologues and the political puppeteer Berlusconi." 
Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter 
Read More Stories About: 
Big Government, Breitbart London, National Security, Europe, Germany, Nationalism, Populism, Stephen K. 
Bannon, Stern 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025519 
