From: Leah Reis-Dennis 
Sent: 12/8/2015 3:33:09 PM 
To: jeeyacation@gmail.com; Lisa New 
Subject: following up: WA poetry release 
Importance: High 
Dear Jeffrey, 
My name is Leah Reis-Dennis, and I'll be heading operations for Lisa's new non-profit, Verse Video Education. 
She's asked me to be in touch with you about helping us get a release from Woody Allen. 
First, I wanted to send along the rough stringout of footage from the conversation with Woody a couple of years 
ago on "This is Just to Say" by William Carlos Williams. This is totally unedited and uncut footage, but we 
would love the opportunity to turn it into something great. 
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/cObnljj xeo0654g/uWZ6KBVbLS?preview=WoodyAllen+Basic+Clip+for+Viewing.mov  
If Woody Allen agrees to let us use the footage, he will be in distinguished company. To date, we have filmed 
conversations about poetry with dozens of distinguished Americans including: 
Bill Clinton 
Al Gore 
John McCain 
Mayor Rahm Emanuel 
Mayor Tom Menino 
Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan 
Sir Mervyn King 
Former Secretary of the Treasury Larry Summers 
The conversation would be part of a large multiplatform initiative that Harvard Professor Lisa New has under 
way to bring poetry into the mainstream, and, especially, into English Language Arts classrooms in the United 
States and around the world. The initiative, Poetry in America, includes a HarvardX online course, a television 
series we're creating with WGBH to be paired with PBS LearningMedia segments for the classroom, and, a 
series of online professional development courses we're creating for ELA Middle and High School teachers and 
for their students. 
Let us know if Woody Allen might be open to our sending another release form his way. Of course, if he's 
interested in releasing the footage for only certain parts of our project, we're open to having a conversation 
about that, too. 
Thank you, and I hope to meet you soon. 
Best, Leah 
Leah Reis-Dennis 
Poetry in America  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028957 
