Date: Friday, December 16 2011 06:41 PM 
Subject: Approach Summary 
From: Christina Galbraith 
> 
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation©gmail.com >; 
Picasso Overview_pdf.html; Untitled attachment 63876.htm; RepDef-Process-Deck_pdf.html; Untitled 
attachment 63879.htm; company-overview_pdf.html; Untitled attachment 63882.htm 
Attachments: 
1. Optimizing good information to push down the negative: using new content (blog, 
websites, press releases, public network profiles, google images, etc) and search engine 
optimization. Changing the Wikipedia profile. Notes Wikipedia below. 
2. Eliminating the bad information using prevalence and proprietary algorithms; redirecting 
the way in which Google sequences your information (reassociating it with the positive 
content). This is called off-page optimization. 
3. Eliminating personal information (social sec, tel #'s, dob, addresses etc) from all public 
and private directories. 
COMMENTS:  
Step 2 is critical otherwise one is just bailing water from an ongoing flood of negative press. By 
realigning the algorithms (i.e. reinforcing positive associations with your name and weakening the 
negative associations), one almost permanently seals up the water hole or at least closes it 
significantly. This allows for Step 1 to be a onetime project (which will take 2 to 4 months approx.), 
with just tweaking here and there down the road with updated content. 
BEST PEOPLE TO USE:  
You need people who eat, drink and sleep algorithms and search engine optimization. I've 
researched several companies and the most skilled, discrete, award winning and comprehensive is 
a company called, www.reputation.com based in Silicon Valley. See their attached docs for review. 
Below are bulleted key points on them: 
Lookup Page just creates web pages and will not solve your problem. 
I would serve as a liaison between you and Reputation. I would monitor their progress and provide 
them with all positive content that they need. They would make sure that the content has maximum 
algorithmic potential. You could keep your positive content simple (using you Edge.org summary 
which is good), or expand your content with updates on current science work and scientists. The 
benefit of the former, is that it keeps you more anonymous. The benefit of the latter is that is 
algorithmically associates you to a larger pool of known scientists, further pushing up positive 
content. My advice would be to combine the two: a simple repetitive bio summary of you but with a 
larger list of scientists added on. But I would ask the Reputation team about this: saying that the 
main goal is to enhance anonymity and algorithmic associations at the same time. 
WHY REPUTATION ftr  no particular order)  
• Represents numerous fortune 500 companies 
• clients in more than 100 countries 
• based in Silicon Valley 
• Featured on CNN, WSJ, Forbes, NY Times etc 
• Undisputed world leader in online reputation management 
• Prevalence and proprietary algorithms to drive positive search results to the top. 
• Intimate knowledge of search engine optimization. 
• 200+ employees 
• Patented Internet technology 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025233 
• Partnered with: American Medical Assoc. Am Bar Assoc, Aol, etc 
• $67 million in venture capital to date. 
• CEO is Michael Fertik 
CEO and Founder 
Michael Fertik founded Reputation.com in 2006 
with the belief that people have the right to control 
and protect their online reputation and privacy. In 
addition to his work with Reputation.com, Michael 
holds a position on the advisory board of The Internet 
Keepsafe Coalition (iKeepSafe), a nonprofit that 
works to protect the health and safety of youth online. 
Michael is regarded as one of the earliest pioneers of 
online reputation management and a leading expert 
on issues of online privacy. He co-authored the book 
Wild West 2.0 and lectures internationally, appearing 
before professional and academic audiences. Michael 
also advises school administrators and parent groups. 
Prior to founding Reputation.com, Michael clerked for 
Chief Judge Danny J. Boggs of the Sixth Circuit Court 
of Appeals of the United States. He is a graduate of 
Harvard College and Harvard Law School, speaks 
several languages, and enjoys sailing, reading, and 
running. 
TIME FRAME & FEES 
Their "Picasso" Tech services described in step 2, will take approx. 3 months to eliminate bad press from the 
1st and 2'd page. The whole process will take about a year to be solidified. Fees will be approx. $10k -$15k 
per month but depends on each case and costs can be kept down by providing content and selecting only 
truly necessary services. 
WIKIPEDIA 
This is a tough nut to crack. And I need to do more research on this. Wiki comes up first on the 
Google list due to its powerful domain and contains totally lopsided and damning content on you. 
But we'll crack it. On the surface, Wiki is controlled by a morass of copyediting geeks who have 
nothing better to do than to discuss reference tags etc. It is also 'the people's' encyclopedia, 
dictated by the tyranny of the majority—so no objectivity at all. 
Current Strategy— 1. The Reputation group have a copyright team dedicated to balancing the 
content on Wikipedia and gradually sectioning the bad stuff down to sub categories in the profile. 
They don't seem to be able to eliminate the bad though. 2. So, I think it's worth seeing how people 
like Prince Andrew managed to create an absolutely stellar profile—or Bill Clinton for that matter. 
No mention of his impeachment or lying to the Grand Jury. It barely touches on Lewinsky etc. 3. 
There are also protected pages on Wiki but I need more time and research. 
WEBSITE  
You need to update your website immediately by adding the bio on you from The Edge if you can 
and adding a longer summary of science and scientists that you are/have worked with. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025234 
