COVINGTON 
BEIJING BRUSSELS LONDON LOS ANGELES 
NEW YORK SAN FRANCISCO SEOUL 
SHANGHAI SILICON VALLEY WASHINGTON 
By E-Mail and First Class Mail 
The Honorable Richard Burr 
The Honorable Mark R. Warner 
Select Committee on Intelligence 
United States Senate 
Washington, D.C. 20510 
Robert K. Kelner 
Covington & Burling LLP 
One CityCenter 
850 Tenth Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20001-4956 
May 22, 2017 
Re: Subpoena to Lieutenant General Michael T. Flynn (Ret.) 
Dear Chairman Burr and Vice Chairman Warner: 
We write in response to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence's subpoena dated 
May 10, 2017, requesting that our client, Lieutenant General Michael T. Flynn (Ret.), produce 
any documents he may have that are responsive to a broad range of requests covering an 18-
month period of time. Specifically, the subpoena requests that he create a list of all meetings and 
all communications between himself and Russian officials, and that he produce records of all 
communications between himself and President Trump's campaign that were in any way related 
to Russia, for the period from June 16, 2015, to January 20, 2017. 
In our May 8, 2017, letter to the Committee, we reiterated General Flynn's eagerness to 
give a full account of the facts and to answer the Committee's questions, should the 
circumstances permit, including assurances against unfair prosecution. We stated that, absent 
such assurances, General Flynn would respectfully decline your request for an interview and for 
the production of documents. 
Our client's position remains unchanged. Producing documents that fall within the 
subpoena's broad scope would be a testimonial act, insofar as it would confirm or deny the 
existence of such documents. Under the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution and 
applicable court precedents, no person is required to offer testimony when he has "reasonable 
cause to apprehend danger from a direct answer," even when that person is entirely innocent 
and has committed no crime.1 Indeed, the United States Supreme Court has "emphasized that 
one of the Fifth Amendment's basic functions... is to protect innocent men . . . who otherwise 
might be ensnared by ambiguous circumstances."2 The Court held that even "truthful responses 
of an innocent witness" may provide the Government with evidence that could be used against 
I See Ohio v. Reiner, 532 U.S. 17, 21 (2001) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
2 Id. (emphasis in original) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
DC: 6427118-1 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031670 
COVINGTON 
The Honorable Richard Burr 
The Honorable Mark R. Warner 
May 22, 2017 
Page 2 
the witness. 3 And, as courts have repeatedly held, the protection offered by the Fifth 
Amendment privilege extends to producing documents where the act of production itself is 
testimonial in nature. 
The context in which the Committee has called for General Flynn's testimonial 
production of documents makes clear that he has more than a reasonable apprehension that any 
testimony he provides could be used against him. Multiple Members of Congress have 
demanded that he be investigated and even prosecuted. He is the target on nearly a daily basis of 
outrageous allegations, often attributed to anonymous sources in Congress or elsewhere in the 
United States Government, which, however fanciful on their face and unsubstantiated by 
evidence, feed the escalating public frenzy against him.4 Additionally, in the intervening time 
since the Committee issued its subpoena, the Department of Justice has appointed a special 
counsel to investigate these and related matters. This environment creates a "reasonable cause 
to apprehend danger," giving rise to a constitutional right not to testify. A detailed explanation 
of the legal basis for respectfully declining to comply with the Committee's requests follows 
below.5 
The Fifth Amendment Privilege Bars Congress From Compelling A Witness to Provide 
Testimony Through The Act of Producing Documents  
The Fifth Amendment protects an individual from being "compelled in any criminal case 
to be a witness against himself." U.S. Const. amend. V. This privilege applies in congressional 
investigations. In Watkins v. United States, Chief Justice Warren stressed that "the 
constitutional rights of witnesses will be respected by the Congress as they are in a court of 
justice.... Witnesses cannot be compelled to give evidence against themselves." 354 U.S. 178, 
187-88 (1957). The Supreme Court later held in United States v. Hubbell, 530 U.S. 27,34 
(200o), that the right not to be compelled to give testimony against oneself applies as well to the 
compelled production of documents that would be "testimonial" in nature. Specifically, the act 
of producing documents in response to a subpoena may have a "compelled testimonial aspect" 
when "the act of production itself may implicitly communicate statements of fact" that the 
documents "existed, were in his possession or control, and were authentic." Id. at 36 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (quoting United States v. Doe, 465 U.S. 605,613 & n.11 (1984)). 
3 Id. 
4 These include leaks that purport to describe classified briefings, documents, and intelligence 
collection. Any actual leaks of classified information -- including reported leaks of signals 
intelligence -- constitute criminal offenses by government officials violating their duty to protect 
classified information. 
5 General Flynn reserves the right to assert, in connection with the subpoena, any other privilege 
or protection provided by the Constitution, statute, or common law. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031671 
COVINGTON 
The Honorable Richard Burr 
The Honorable Mark R. Warner 
May 22, 2017 
Page 3 
A. If the government fails to demonstrate prior knowledge of requested 
subpoenaed documents, the act of producing those documents is testimonial. 
Two Supreme Court precedents, Fisher v. United States, 425 U.S. 391 (1976) and United 
States v. Hubbell, as well as Hubbell's progeny, United States v. Ponds, 454 F.3d 313 (D.C. Cir. 
2oo6), inform the determination of whether a production of documents in response to a 
subpoena has a testimonial character. Fisher involved IRS investigations in which the 
government learned that the investigated taxpayers had given their attorneys tax returns 
prepared by their accountants in the years in question. The Court highlighted that the 
subpoenaed documents belonged to the accountant and not the target of the investigation, were 
prepared by the accountant, and are "the kind usually prepared by an accountant working on the 
tax returns of his client." Fisher, 425 U.S. at 411. The Court concluded that insofar as the 
government was not relying on the taxpayer to prove the existence of the documents, production 
of the documents was not "testimonial" because "the existence and location of the papers are a 
foregone conclusion and the taxpayer adds little or nothing to the sum total of the Government's 
information by conceding that he in fact has the papers." Id. 
In contrast to Fisher, a case in which investigators already knew that documents existed 
and exactly where they were located, the investigators in Hubbell lacked "any prior knowledge of 
either the existence or the whereabouts" of the subpoenaed materials. Hubbell, 530 U.S. 27, 44-
45. Hubbell arose out of the Whitewater investigation, in which Independent Counsel Kenneth 
Starr sought broad categories of information from Webster Hubbell, a target of the 
investigation. The subpoena included such requests as "any and all documents reflecting, 
referring, or relating to" the broad contours of the investigation, as well as "Hubbell's schedule 
of activities." Id. at 41, 47. In examining the broad requests in the subpoena, the Court 
emphasized that "it [was] apparent from the text of the subpoena itself that the prosecutor 
needed respondent's assistance both to identify potential sources of information and to produce 
those sources." Id. at 41. The Court ruled that the acts required to respond to such a broad 
subpoena were testimonial in nature, comparing them to "answering a series of interrogatories 
asking a witness to disclose the existence and location of particular documents fitting certain 
broad descriptions." Id. at 41, 43. 
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit applied Hubbell and 
Fisher in United States v. Ponds, framing the inquiry as concerning "an act of production that, 
in its testimonial character, falls somewhere between the response to a fishing expedition 
addressed in United States v. Hubbell, and the production of documents whose existence was a 
'foregone conclusion' in Fisher v. United States." United States v. Ponds, 454 F.3d 313, 316 
(D.C. Cir. 2oo6). The court emphasized that "[w]hether an act of production is sufficiently 
testimonial to implicate the Fifth Amendment ... depends on the government's knowledge 
regarding the documents before they are produced." Id. at 320. Significantly, the Ponds court 
put the burden on the government to show that the act of production would not be testimonial, 
requiring the government to show its pre-subpoena knowledge of the "existence, possession, and 
authenticity of the subpoenaed documents with reasonable particularity such that the 
communication inherent in the act of production can be considered a foregone conclusion." Id. 
at 324 (internal citations omitted). 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031672 
COVI NGTON 
The Honorable Richard Burr 
The Honorable Mark R. Warner 
May 22, 2017 
Page 4 
The court contrasted the concept of "reasonable particularity" with mere general 
knowledge of an event or topic, finding that mere "prior knowledge [of a topic] ... cannot suffice 
to establish [the government's] prior knowledge of the existence and location of the documents 
relating or referring to those topics." Id. at 326. Ultimately, the court held that "[b]ecause the 
government has failed to show with reasonable particularity that it knew of the existence and 
location of most of the subpoenaed documents... Ponds' act of production was sufficiently 
testimonial to implicate his right against self-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment to the 
Constitution." Id. at 316. 
B. Because the Committee's subpoena fails to demonstrate with reasonable 
particularity prior knowledge of the requested documents, General Flynn's act 
of production would be testimonial in nature. 
The great breadth of the Committee's subpoena to General Flynn suggests that his act of 
producing the requested documents, if they even exist, would be testimonial in nature, given 
that the Committee has not demonstrated knowledge of the "existence, possession, and 
authenticity of the subpoenaed documents with reasonable particularity such that the 
communication inherent in the act of production can be considered a foregone conclusion." Id. 
at 324. Schedule A of the subpoena requests production of: 
1. A list of all meetings between you and any Russian official or 
representative of Russian business interests which took place 
between June 16, 2015, and 12pm on January 20, 2017. For each 
meeting listed, please include the date, location, all individuals 
present, and complete copies of any notes taken by you or on your 
behalf. 
2. All communications records, including electronic 
communications records such as e-mail or text messages, written 
correspondence, and phone records, of communications that took 
place between June 16, 2015, and 12pm on January zo 2017, to 
which you and any Russian official or representative of Russian 
business interests was a party. 
3. All communications records, including electronic 
communications records such as e-mail or text message, written 
correspondence, and phone records, of communications related in 
any way to Russia, conducted between you and members and 
advisors of the Trump campaign prior to izpm on January 20, 
2017. 
In sum, the subpoena demands a list of "all meetings" with "any Russian official," "all 
communication records" with "any Russian official," and "all communication records ... related 
in any way to Russia" conducted with unnamed "members and advisors of the Trump 
campaign," that occurred over an 18-month period. The broad sweep and lack of specificity of 
these demands clearly reflect that the Committee does not have specific knowledge regarding 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031673 
COVI NGTON 
The Honorable Richard Burr 
The Honorable Mark R. Warner 
May 22, 2017 
Page 5 
the existence of any particular responsive documents. See United States v. Doe, 465 U.S. 605, 
613 n.12 (1984) ("The most plausible inference to be drawn from the broad-sweeping subpoenas 
is that the Government [is] unable to prove that the subpoenaed documents exist . ..."). 
The first demand for a list of all meetings with any Russian official (or "representative of 
Russian business interests") over 18 months fails for want of specifying particular individuals, 
locations, or dates. Moreover, this is not merely a demand to produce existing documents. It is 
actually an interrogatory demanding that General Flynn create a new document containing 
information that the Committee seeks to discover. This is a demand for direct testimony, not 
merely a testimonial act of production. As in Hubbell, General Flynn's compilation of such a list 
would be akin to him "answering a series of interrogatories asking [him] to disclose the 
existence and location of [meetings] fitting certain broad descriptions." Hubbell, 530 U.S. at 41. 
The Court in Hubbell held that the witness could not be compelled to prepare such a list without 
violating his Fifth Amendment privilege. Finally, the nebulous term "representative of Russian 
business interests" necessarily would require General Flynn, in responding to the request, to 
testify as to who is or is not a "representative of Russian business interests." This too constitutes 
direct testimony that is clearly covered by the Fifth Amendment privilege. 
The subpoena's second and third demands are even broader in scope than the first, given 
their request for all communication records with any Russian official. The complete lack of 
specificity in the request makes clear that, unlike in Fisher, the existence of any document 
responsive to the Committee's request is far from a "foregone conclusion." Fisher, 425 U.S. at 
411. The fact that the subpoena also demands all documents in the custody, control or 
possession of General Flynn's "agents, employees, or representatives" underscores that the 
Committee does not know whether responsive documents exist, who may possess them, or 
where they are located. Were General Flynn to provide responsive documents, he would be 
providing compelled testimony about "the documents' existence, custody, and authenticity." 
Hubbell, 530 U.S. at 28. This is precisely the sort of testimonial information that the Fifth 
Amendment privilege is designed to protect from compelled disclosure. See In re Grand Jury 
Subpoena, Dated Apr. 18, 200,3,383 F.3d 905, 911 (9th Cir. 2004) (finding an act of production 
to be testimonial in nature where a "subpoena seeks all documents within a category but fails to 
describe those documents with any specificity. ."). 
The Committee must demonstrate more than general knowledge that a meeting may 
have occurred; the Committee must demonstrate "knowledge of the existence and possession of 
the actual documents" in order to prove that the existence and location of the documents is a 
"foregone conclusion." Id. at 910 (emphasis added). The Committee simply has not met its 
burden of showing its "pre-subpoena knowledge of the existence, possession, and authenticity of 
the subpoenaed documents with reasonable particularity." Ponds, 454 F.3d at 324. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031674 
COVINGTON 
The Honorable Richard Burr 
The Honorable Mark R. Warner 
May 22, 2017 
Page 6 
Instead, as in Hubbell, the Committee's broad demands makes it "apparent from the text 
of the subpoena itself' that the Committee needs General Flynn's "assistance both to identify 
potential sources of information and to produce those sources." Hubbell, 530 U.S. at 41. As a 
consequence, the subpoena seeks to compel General Flynn to offer testimony through the act of 
producing documents that may or may not exist. In these circumstances, General Flynn is 
entitled to, and does, invoke his Fifth Amendment privilege against production of documents. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Robert K. Kelner 
Stephen P. Anthony 
Brian D. Smith 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031675 
