From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Steve Bannon 
3/11/2018 8:07:21 PM 
jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Re: Filed: German Media Confess to Underestimating Steve Bannon; He Is 'As Dangerous as Ever' 
Importance: High 
Don't worry 
All good 
On Mar 11, 2018, at 9:05 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
ill make it up to you,. sorry 
On Mon, Mar 12, 2018 at 2:04 AM, Steve Bannon < > wrote: 
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T 
From: "jeffrey E." <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2018 21:03:53 +0100 
To: Steve Bannon 
Subject: Re: Filed: German Media Confess to Underestimating Steve Bannon; He Is 'As Dangerous as Ever' 
Unfortunately I just spoke to one of the country leaders that we discussed„ I will 
now and then to new york wednesday night. sorry. will be in new york thurs 
out a strategy plan. . how much fun... travel safe. 
On Sun, Mar 11, 2018 at 8:47 PM, Steve Bannon < > wrote: 
Pretty powerful 
On Mar 11, 2018, at 8:42 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
luv it 
On Sun, Mar 11, 2018 at 8:39 PM, Steve Bannon > wrote: 
Germans get it 
Begin forwarded message: 
Resent-From: 1111111.111111•1111111111.> 
From: "Thomas D. Williams" 
Date: March 11, 2018 at 5:13:03 PM GMT+1 
To: Raheem Kassam 
< 
fly there tomorw night 
and friday. we should lay 
Oliver Lane 
, Alexander Marlow Frances Martel 
h, Adrienne Ross <> 
Subject: Filed: German Media Confess to Underestimating Steve Bannon; He Is 'As Dangerous as 
Ever' 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025528 
German Media Confess to 
Underestimating Steve 
Bannon; He Is 'As Dangerous 
as Ever' 
by THOMAS D. WILLIAMS, PH.D.11 Mar 201 
0 
As Steve Bannon continues his tour of Europe, energizing the anti-
establishment populist base, the mainstream media cannot help but 
admit their admiration for his abilities, despite their dislike of his aims. 
In this week's issue, the left-wing German weekly Stern articulates the greatest fear of the European 
establishment: that Bannon "could give the fragmented right in Europe a common ideology and rhetoric." 
Many thought that the reign of the "Dark Lord" had ended, writes Gernot Kramper, when Steve Bannon left 
first the White House and then his role as executive chairman of Breitbart News. It turns out, however, that 
Bannon's adversaries had underestimated him, because he is "as dangerous as ever," he confesses. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025529 
Kramper cannot conceal his respect for Bannon's ability to move a crowd. He was greeted by "frenetic 
applause" in his recent address before France's National Front party, Kramper writes, demonstrating his 
"impressive potential," which the writer describes as "dangerous." 
In the mind of his audience, Bannon is something of a miracle-worker, Stamper notes, having "done the 
impossible" by bringing Donald Trump into the White House. 
The reason Bannon is dangerous, Kramper continues, is because he "lays out the political program of a 
worldwide right: He has already conquered the USA; now Europe and then the whole world will follow." 
"You are part of a worldwide movement that is bigger than France, bigger than Italy, bigger than Hungary, 
bigger than all that," Bannon told French populists. 
Bannon showed that he "dominates the mood against the 'elites,' the 'establishment' and the 'perverse 
system' of greedy corporations and banks, and of course also against the press, which is led around 'like a 
dog on the Leash,' Stamper writes. 
And now he Mr. Bannon setting himself up as an instigator, if not an outright shepherd, of a movement that 
crosses borders, languages and parties. 
"Bannon is a master of apocalyptic rhetoric," Stamper continues, effortlessly weaving together nationalist 
interests with an international populist movement. 
The American strategist showed his "true caliber" by expounding modern methods of political freedom 
through blockchain technologies and cryptocurrencies, Stamper said, leaving many of his hearers behind. 
Bannon has demonstrated that if the right wants to rule the future, "it must dominate modern themes and 
rhetorically position them," he added. 
Aspiring to be far more than an uncle who tells stories to his nephews of how he won the fight for the White 
House, Stamper writes, "Bannon wants to become the super godfather of the international right." 
Although Bannon often looks a bit disheveled, "he should not be underestimated," the writer warns. Past 
business partners attribute impressive "strategic foresight" to the eccentric tactician, saying he was often 
"three or four steps ahead" of his opponents in business. Because of his phenomenal memory, his nickname 
is "the encyclopedia," Stamper notes with a certain reverence, and in his speeches he will spontaneously cite 
"forgotten thinkers, known only to a handful of specialists." 
"Bannon brings with him exclusive knowledge of power from the very heart of power," Stamper writes, 
which he will bring to bear on Europe's fragmented populist populism. 
According to Stamper, Bannon has established his "European headquarters" in Italy, from where he intends 
to galvanize European populists. 
The Italian political situation is completely to his liking, Stamper declares, with a political landscape 
"dominated by populists, right-wing ideologues and the political puppeteer Berlusconi." 
Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025530 
Read More Stories About: 
Big Government, Breitbart London, National Security, Europe, Germany, Nationalism, Populism, Stephen 
K. Bannon, Stern 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025531 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025532 
