From: 
Sent: 6/18/2011 2:51:44 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: The European Union Times 
Importance: High 
Sent from my iPad 
Russia Says IMF Chief Jailed For Discovering All US Gold is 
Gone 
A new report prepared for Prime Minister Putin by the Federal Security Service (FSB) says that former 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) Chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn was charged and jailed in the US for sex 
crimes on May 14th after his discovery that all of the gold held in the United States Bullion Depository located 
at Fort Knox was 'missing and / or unaccounted' for. 
According to this FSB secret report, Strauss-Kahn had become "increasingly concerned" earlier this month 
after the United States began "stalling" its pledged delivery to the IMF of 191.3 tons of gold agreed to under 
the Second Amendment of the Articles of Agreement signed by the Executive Board in April 1978 that were to 
be sold to fund what are called Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) as an alternative to what are called reserve 
currencies. 
This FSB report further states that upon Strauss-Kahn raising his concerns with American government officials 
close to President Obama he was 'contacted' by 'rogue elements' within the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) 
who providedhim 'firm evidence' that all of the gold reported to be held by the US 'was gone'. 
Upon Strauss-Kahn receiving the CIA evidence, this report continues, he made immediate arrangements to 
leave the US for Paris, but when contacted by agents working for France's General Directorate for External 
Security (DGSE) that American authorities were seeking his capture he fled to New York City's JFK airport 
following these agents directive not to take his cell-phone because US police could track his exact location. 
Once Strauss-Kahn was safely boarded on an Air France flight to Paris, however, this FSB report says he made 
a 'fatal mistake' by calling the hotel from a phone on the plane and asking them to forwarded the cell-phone 
he had been told to leave behind to his French residence, after which US agents were able to track and 
apprehend him. 
Within the past fortnight, this report continues, Strauss-Kahn reached out to his close friend and top Egyptian 
banker Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar to retrieve from the US the evidence given to him by the CIA. Omar, 
however, and exactly like Strauss-Kahn before him, was charged yesterday by the US with a sex crime against 
a luxury hotel maid, a charge the FSB labels as 'beyond belief' due to Omar being 74-years-old and a devout 
Muslim. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031333 
II 
In an astounding move puzzling many in Moscow, Putin after reading this secret FSB report today ordered 
posted to the Kremlin's official website a defense of Strauss-Khan becoming the first world leader to state that 
the former IMF chief was a victim of a US conspiracy. Putin further stated, "It's hard for me to evaluate the 
hidden political motives but I cannot believe that it looks the way it was initially introduced. It doesn't sit right 
in my head. 
Interesting to note about all of these events is that one of the United States top Congressman, and 2012 
Presidential candidate, Ron Paul has long stated his belief that the US government has lied about its gold 
reserves held at Fort Knox. So concerned had Congressman Paul become about the US government and the 
Federal Reserve hiding the truth about American gold reserves he put forward a bill in late 2010 to force an 
audit of them, but which was subsequently defeated by Obama regime forces. 
When directly asked by reporters if he believed there was no gold in Fort Knox or the Federal Reserve, 
Congressman Paul gave the incredible reply, "I think it is a possibility." 
Also interesting to note is that barely 3 days after the arrest of Strauss-Kahn, Congressman Paul made a new 
call for the US to sell its gold reserves by stating, "Given the high price it is now, and the tremendous debt 
problem we now have, by all means, sell at the peak." 
Bizarre reports emanating from the US for years, however, suggest there is no gold to sell, and as we can read 
as posted in 2009 on the ViewZone.Com news site: 
"In October of 2009 the Chinese received a shipment of gold bars. Gold is regularly exchanged between 
countries to pay debts and to settle the so-called balance of trade. 
Most gold is exchanged and stored in vaults under the supervision of a special organization based in London, 
the London Bullion Market Association (or LBMA). When the shipment was received, the Chinese government 
asked that special tests be performed to guarantee the purity and weight of the gold bars. In this test, four 
small holes are drilled into the gold bars and the metal is then analyzed. 
Officials were shocked to learn that the bars were fake. They contained cores of tungsten with only a outer 
coating of real gold. What's more, these gold bars, containing serial numbers for tracking, originated in the US 
and had been stored in Fort Knox for years. There were reportedly between 5,600 to 5,700 bars, weighing 400 
oz. each, in the shipment!" 
To the final fate of Strauss-Kahn it is not in our knowing, but new reports coming from the United States show 
his determination not to go down without a fight as he has hired what is described as a 'crack team' of former 
CIA spies, private investigators and media advisers to defend him. 
To the practical effects on the global economy should it be proved that the US, indeed, has been lying about 
its gold reserves, Russia's Central Bank yesterday ordered the interest rate raised from 0.25 to 3.5 percent and 
Putin ordered the export ban on wheat and grain crops lifted by July 1st in a move designed to fill the 
Motherlands coffers with money that normally would have flowed to the US. 
The American peoples ability to know the truth of these things, and as always, has been shouted out by their 
propaganda media organs leaving them in danger of not being prepared for the horrific economic collapse of 
their nation now believed will much sooner than later. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031334 
