From: 
Sent: 
To: 
CC: 
Subject: 
Skip Rimer 
4/25/2013 4:20:39 PM 
Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
A message to Global Conference 2013 Attendees 
Importance: High 
Dear Global Conference Registrant: 
We look forward to seeing you in a few days at the 16th annual Milken Institute Global Conference. It's a full and 
exciting program with a record 620 speakers on 140+ sessions addressing the major economic and policy issues 
of the day. In addition, we have many other events in store that we hope will make your time with us that much 
more valuable and enjoyable, including a first-time Tuesday night wine tasting and shopping event in the heart of 
Beverly Hills. 
We've made a number of other changes to this year's program, including the addition of three late-afternoon 
plenary sessions — featuring Congressman and Majority Leader Eric Cantor together with Sen. Harry Reid, 
Majority Leader (Monday); former Vice President Al Gore (Tuesday); and a special session focused on 
Africa's brightening future (Wednesday), described below. 
We have also added a larger stage in the Global Conference Pavilion, allowing for a variety of more innovative 
sessions and audience involvement. 
Please note two important program/speaker updates: 
• We've saved one of the best for last. The Global Conference closes on Wednesday with "Investing in 
African Prosperity," featuring Rwandan President Paul Kagame, former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, 
philanthropist Bill Gates, and Rhonda Zygocki of Chevron, moderated by Institute Chairman Mike Milken. 
• Wednesday's lunch program brings together some of America's most important health leaders, including 
Nancy Brown, CEO of the American Heart Association; Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes 
of Health; Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; and Andrew von 
Eschenbach, former Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, to talk about the scientific 
revolution that promises to change lives and society. 
We may have moved some panels since you set your schedule, so I encourage you to visit 
www.qlobalconference.org for the latest speakers and program. 
Within the next 24 hours, you will be receiving your Global Conference confirmation email. Be sure to 
bring the confirmation email and a photo ID with you to registration. 
We look forward to seeing you. I hope you take advantage of everything the Global Conference has to offer. Most 
important, have a great time. 
Sincerely, 
Skip Rimer 
Executive Director of Programs and Communications 
Milken Institute 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026601 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026602 
