From: Terry Kafka 
Sent: 11/4/2013 4:06:12 PM 
To: Michael S. Buchholtz 
CC: Jeffery Edwards [jeevacation@gmail.com]; Mark L. Epstein 
Subject: FW: Rabbi Steven Pruzansky 
Attachments: image001.gif; image001.gif 
Importance: High 
MB: this sums up my feelings on the direction of the country and the blind loyalty of Democratic Jews. I trust I do not 
offend. Its blunt but in many ways true. tk 
From: Brad Bowen [mailto 
Sent: Monday, November 04, 2013 9:42 AM 
To: Terry Kafka 
Subject: Fwd: Rabbi Steven Pruzansky 
Sent from my iPhone 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Fred Simon 
Date: November 3, 2013 at 4:07:53 PM CST 
To: Ralph Simon ________________________ 
Subject: Rabbi Steven Pruzansky 
VERY INTERESTING. G 
, Fred Simon 
The problems we face today are there because the people who 
work for a living are outnumbered by those who vote for a  
We Are Not Coming Back 
Please take a moment to digest this provocative article by a 
Jewish Rabbi from Teaneck, N.J. 
It is far and away the most succinct and thoughtful  
explanation of how our nation is changing. The article 
appeared in The Israel National News, and is directed to 
Jewish readership. 70% of American Jews vote as Democrats. 
The Rabbi has some interesting comments in that regard. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031699 
Rabbi Steven Pruzansky is the spiritual leader of 
Congregation Bnai Yeshurun in Teaneck, New Jersey 
"The most charitable way of explaining the election results of 2012 is that Americans voted 
for the status quo - for the incumbent President and for a divided Congress. They must enjoy 
gridlock, partisanship, incompetence, economic stagnation and avoidance of responsibility. 
And fewer people voted. 
But as we awake from the nightmare, it is important to eschew the facile explanations for the 
Romney defeat that will prevail among the chattering classes. Romney did not lose because 
of the effects of Hurricane Sandy that devastated this area, nor did he lose because he ran a 
poor campaign, nor did he lose because the Republicans could have chosen better 
candidates, nor did he lose because Obama benefited from a slight uptick in the economy 
due to the business cycle. 
Romney lost because he didn't get enough votes to win. 
That might seem obvious, but not for the obvious reasons. Romney lost because the 
conservative virtues - the traditional American virtues — of liberty, hard work, free enterprise, 
private initiative and aspirations to moral greatness - no longer inspire or animate a majority 
of the electorate. 
The simplest reason why Romney lost was because it is impossible to compete against free 
stuff. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031700 
Every businessman knows this; that is why the "loss leader" or the giveaway is such a 
powerful marketing tool. Obama's America is one in which free stuff is given away: the adults 
among the 47,000,000 on food stamps clearly recognized for whom they should vote, and so 
they did, by the tens of millions; those who - courtesy of Obama - receive two full years of 
unemployment benefits (which, of course, both disincentivizes looking for work and also 
motivates people to work off the books while collecting their windfall) surely know for whom 
to vote. The lure of free stuff is irresistible. 
The defining moment of the whole campaign was the revelation of the secretly-recorded video 
in which Romney acknowledged the difficulty of winning an election in which "47% of the 
people" start off against him because they pay no taxes and just receive money - "free stuff" - 
from the government. 
Almost half of the population has no skin in the game - they 
don't care about high taxes, promoting business, or creating 
jobs, nor do they care that the money for their free stuff is 
being borrowed from their children and from the Chinese. 
They just want the free stuff that comes their way at someone 
else's expense. In the end, that 47% leaves very little margin 
for error for any Republican, and does not bode well for the 
future. 
It is impossible to imagine a conservative candidate winning against such overwhelming 
odds. People do vote their pocketbooks. In essence, the people vote for a Congress who will 
not raise their taxes, and for a President who will give them free stuff, never mind who has to 
pay for it. 
That engenders the second reason why Romney lost: the inescapable conclusion that the 
electorate is ignorant and uninformed. Indeed, it does not pay to be an informed voter, 
because most other voters - the clear majority — are unintelligent and easily swayed by 
emotion and raw populism. That is the indelicate way of saying that too many people vote 
with their hearts and not their heads. That is why Obama did not have to produce a second 
term agenda, or even defend his first-term record. He needed only to portray Mitt Romney as 
a rapacious capitalist who throws elderly women over a cliff, when he is not just snatching 
away their cancer medication, while starving the poor and cutting taxes for the rich. 
During his 1956 presidential campaign, a woman called out to Adlai Stevenson: "Senator, you 
have the vote of every thinking person!" Stevenson called back: "That's not enough, madam, 
we need a majority!" 
Truer words were never spoken. 
Obama could get away with saying that "Romney wants the rich to play by a different set of 
rules" - without ever defining what those different rules were; with saying that the "rich 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031701 
should pay their fair share" - without ever defining what a "fair share" is; with saying that 
Romney wants the poor, elderly and sick to "fend for themselves" - without even 
acknowledging that all these government programs are going bankrupt, their current 
insolvency only papered over by deficit spending. 
Similarly, Obama (or his surrogates) could hint to blacks that a Romney victory would lead 
them back into chains and proclaim to women that their abortions and birth control would be 
taken away. He could appeal to Hispanics that Romney would have them all arrested and 
shipped to Mexico and unabashedly state that he will not enforce the current immigration 
laws. He could espouse the furtherance of the incestuous relationship between governments 
and unions - in which politicians ply the unions with public money, in exchange for which the 
unions provide the politicians with votes, in exchange for which the politicians provide more 
money and the unions provide more votes, etc., even though the money is gone. 
Obama also knows that the electorate has changed - 
America (they're already a minority in California) and that the new immigrants to the US are 
primarily from the Third World and do not share the traditional American values that attracted 
immigrants in the 19th and 20th centuries. It is a different world, and a different America. 
Obama is part of that different America, knows it, and knows how to tap into it. That is why 
he won. 
that whites will soon be a minority in 
Obama also proved again that negative advertising works, invective sells, and harsh personal 
attacks succeed. That Romney never engaged in such diatribes points to his essential 
goodness as a person; his "negative ads" were simple facts, never personal abuse - facts 
about high unemployment, lower take-home pay, a loss of American power and prestige 
abroad, a lack of leadership, etc. As a politician, though, Romney failed because he did not 
embrace the devil's bargain of making unsustainable promises. 
It turned out that it was not possible for Romney and Ryan - people of substance, depth and 
ideas - to compete with the shallow populism and platitudes of their opponents. Obama 
mastered the politics of envy — of class warfare - never reaching out to Americans as such 
but to individual groups, and cobbling together a winning majority from these minority 
groups. If an Obama could not be defeated - with his record and his vision of America, in 
which free stuff seduces voters - it is hard to envision any change in the future. 
The road to Hillary Clinton in 2016 and to a European-socialist 
economy - those very economies that are collapsing today in 
Europe - is paved. 
For Jews, mostly assimilated anyway and staunch Democrats, the results demonstrate again 
that liberalism is their Torah. Almost 70% voted for a 
president widely perceived by Israelis and most committed Jews as hostile to Israel . They 
voted to secure Obama's future at America 's expense and at Israel 's expense - in effect, 
preferring Obama to Netanyahu by a wide margin. 
A dangerous time is ahead. Under present circumstances, it is 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031702 
inconceivable that the US will take any aggressive action 
against Iran and will more likely thwart any Israeli initiative. 
The US will preach the importance of negotiations up until the 
production of the first Iranian nuclear weapon - and then state 
that the world must learn to live with this new reality. 
But this election should be a wake-up call to Jews. There is no permanent empire, nor is there 
an enduring haven for Jews anywhere in the exile. The American empire began to decline in 
2007, and the deterioration has been exacerbated in the last five years. This election only 
hastens that decline. 
Society is permeated with sloth, greed, envy and materialistic excess. It has lost its moorings 
and its moral foundations.. The takers outnumber the givers, and that will only increase in 
years to come. 
The "Occupy" riots across this country in the last two years 
were mere dress rehearsals for what lies ahead - years of 
unrest sparked by the increasing discontent of the 
unsuccessful who want to seize the fruits and the bounty of 
the successful, and do not appreciate the slow pace of 
redistribution. 
If this election proves one thing, it is that the Old America is gone And, sad for the world, it is 
not coming back." 
The problems we face today are there because the people who 
work for a living are outnumbered by those who vote for a  
living.  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031703 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031704 
