From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 5/13/2018 11:03:18 AM 
To: 
Subject: Re: Fw: WSJ 
Nothing attached 
On Sun, May 13, 2018 at 7:00 AM Steve Bannon < > wrote: 
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T 
From: Alexandra Preate < 
Date: Sat, 12 May 2018 08:23:58 -0400 
To: < 
Subject: WSJ 
SUBSCRIBE NOWSIGN IN 
TECH 
Tesla's Engineering Chief Takes Leave of Absence at Pivotal ... 
PRO BANKRUPTCY 
Weinstein Co. Unsecured Creditors Want Sale Proceeds ... 
POLITICS 
GOP Lawmakers Meet With Justice Department Over ... 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021106 
OPINION 
The Endless Clinton Campaign 
OPINION 
The Mystery of Michael Flynn's Guilty Plea 
LIFE 
Why Doesn't Your Husband Want to Have Sex? 
LIFE 
John McCain: 'Vladimir Putin Is an Evil Man' 
POLITICS 
Mueller Asked Ford for Records After It Rejected Michael ... 
WSJ 
The Fight Over FBI's 'Top-Secret' Intelligence Source 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021107 
OPINION 
The Concept of Rights Went With Responsibilities 
OPINION 
The Justice Hall of Mirrors 
TECH 
Tesla's Engineering Chief Takes Leave of Absence at Pivotal ... 
PRO BANKRUPTCY 
Weinstein Co. Unsecured Creditors Want Sale Proceeds ... 
POLITIC S 
GOP Lawmakers Meet With Justice Department Over ... 
OPINION 
The Endless Clinton Campaign 
OPINION 
The Mystery of Michael Flynn's Guilty Plea 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021108 
LIFE 
Why Doesn't Your Husband Want to Have Sex? 
LIFE 
John McCain: 'Vladimir Putin Is an Evil Man' 
POLITICS 
Mueller Asked Ford for Records After It Rejected Michael ... 
WSJ 
The Fight Over FBI's 'Top-Secret' Intelligence Source 
OPINION 
The Concept of Rights Went With Responsibilities 
• POTOMAC WATCH 
About That FBI 'Source' 
Did the bureau engage in outright spying against the 2016 Trump campaign? 
House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes at the Conservative Political Action Conference, 
Feb. 24 at National Harbor, Md. PHOTO: JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021109 
By 
Kimberley A. Strassel 
May 10, 2018 6:50 p.m. ET 
1663 COMMENTS 
The Department of Justice lost its latest battle with Congress Thursday when it agreed to brief House 
Intelligence Committee members about a top-secret intelligence source that was part of the FBI's 
investigation of the Trump campaign. Even without official confirmation of that source's name, the news so 
far holds some stunning implications. 
Among them is that the Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation outright hid critical 
information from a congressional investigation. In a Thursday press conference, Speaker Paul Ryan bluntly 
noted that Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes's request for details on this secret source was "wholly 
appropriate," "completely within the scope" of the committee's long-running FBI investigation, and 
"something that probably should have been answered a while ago." Translation: The department knew full 
well it should have turned this material over to congressional investigators last year, but instead deliberately 
concealed it. 
House investigators nonetheless sniffed out a name, and Mr. Nunes in recent weeks issued a letter and a 
subpoena demanding more details. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein's response was to double 
down—accusing the House of "extortion" and delivering a speech in which he claimed that "declining to 
open the FBI's files to review" is a constitutional "duty." Justice asked the White House to back its 
stonewall. And it even began spinning that daddy of all superspook arguments—that revealing any detail 
about this particular asset could result in "loss of human lives." 
This is desperation, and it strongly suggests that whatever is in these files is going to prove very 
uncomfortable to the FBI. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021110 
The bureau already has some explaining to do. Thanks to the Washington Post's unnamed law-enforcement 
leakers, we know Mr. Nunes's request deals with a "top secret intelligence source" of the FBI and CIA, 
who is a U.S. citizen and who was involved in the Russia collusion probe. When government agencies refer 
to sources, they mean people who appear to be average citizens but use their profession or contacts to spy 
for the agency. Ergo, we might take this to mean that the FBI secretly had a person on the payroll who used 
his or her non-FBI credentials to interact in some capacity with the Trump campaign. 
This would amount to spying, and it is hugely disconcerting. It would also be a major escalation from the 
electronic surveillance we already knew about, which was bad enough. Obama political appointees 
rampantly "unmasked" Trump campaign officials to monitor their conversations, while the FBI played dirty 
with its surveillance warrant against Carter Page, failing to tell the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court 
that its supporting information came from the Hillary Clinton campaign. Now we find it may have also been 
rolling out human intelligence, John Le Carr& style, to infiltrate the Trump campaign. 
Which would lead to another big question for the FBI: When? The bureau has been doggedly sticking with 
its story that a tip in July 2016 about the drunken ramblings of George Papadopoulos launched its 
counterintelligence probe. Still, the players in this affair—the FBI, former Director Jim Comey, the Steele 
dossier authors—have been suspiciously vague on the key moments leading up to that launch date. When 
precisely was the Steele dossier delivered to the FBI? When precisely did the Papadopoulos information 
come in? 
And to the point, when precisely was this human source operating? Because if it was prior to that infamous 
Papadopoulos tip, then the FBI isn't being straight. It would mean the bureau was spying on the Trump 
campaign prior to that moment. And that in turn would mean that the FBI had been spurred to act on the 
basis of something other than a junior campaign aide's loose lips. 
We also know that among the Justice Department's stated reasons for not complying with the Nunes 
subpoena was its worry that to do so might damage international relationships. This suggests the "source" 
may be overseas, have ties to foreign intelligence, or both. That's notable, given the highly suspicious role 
foreigners have played in this escapade. It was an Australian diplomat who reported the Papadopoulos 
conversation. Dossier author Christopher Steele is British, used to work for MI6, and retains ties to that spy 
agency as well as to a network of former spooks. It was a former British diplomat who tipped off Sen. John 
McCain to the dossier. How this "top secret" source fits into this puzzle could matter deeply. 
I believe I know the name of the informant, but my intelligence sources did not provide it to me and refuse 
to confirm it. It would therefore be irresponsible to publish it. But what is clear is that we've barely 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021111 
scratched the surface of the FBI's 2016 behavior, and the country will never get the straight story until 
President Trump moves to declassify everything possible. It's time to rip off the Band-Aid. 
Correction 
The FBI briefed House Intelligence Committee members about a top-secret intelligence source but did not 
allow them to see documents. An earlier version of this article misstated this. 
Alexandra V. Preate 
Chief Executive Officer 
Ca italH 
cell 
The information transmitted in this email (including any attachments) is intended only for the person or entity 
to which it is addressed, and may contain non-public, proprietary, confidential and/or privileged material. If 
you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any use, dissemination, distribution, or copying 
of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please destroy 
all copies of this message and any attachments from your system. Thank you. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 021112 
