From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 2/27/2016 7:38:48 PM 
To: Kathy Ruemmler 
Subject: Re: Follow up 
- ask him for a financial proposal. Subject to 
Mutually acceptable conditions 
On Saturday, 27 February 2016, Kathy Ruemmler 
Unsatisfactory 
Sent from my iPhone 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: "Immelt, Stephen J." 
Date: February 27, 2016 at 10:30:17 AM MST 
To: "Kathy Ruemmler" < 
Subject: RE: Follow up 
Kathy 
> wrote: 
We will of course do this in whatever sequence makes sense for you. It goes without saying that any move 
would need to make economic sense. My assumption has been that your comp would fall outside of our "bell 
curve", but that is not an issue for us as long as the potential contribution also falls outside. You would not be 
the only partner outside the curve, and I am comfortable with expanding that group for people who can 
genuinely move the needle while embracing the culture that makes us who we are. 
One benefit of having Michael in the mix is that he can provide a global perspective, and he would be 
important for explaining the case outside the US if we moved forward. 
Just let me know when and how you want to speak next. 
Best, 
Steve 
Stephen Immelt 
Partner and CEO 
Hogan Lovells US LLP - Washington, DC office 
Columbia Square 
555 Thirteenth Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20004 
Email: 
www.hoganlovells.com 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026378 
Hogan LoveIls International LLP - London office 
Atlantic House 
Holborn Viaduct 
London EC 1A 2FG, United Kingdom 
Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail. 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Kathy Ruemmler 
Sent: Saturday, February 27, 2016 10:08 AM 
To: Immelt, Stephen J. 
Subject: Re: Follow up 
Hi Steve, 
I am still intrigued and would like to meet Michael. I thinks it makes sense, though, for us to have a more 
specific conversation about compensation before I meet with him. I don't want to put the cart before the horse, 
but as I mentioned, this would be a big move for me, and it would have to make sense economically in addition 
to being the right move for other reasons we have discussed. 
I hope you are well. Cannot believe that Christie endorsed Trump! 
Best, 
Kathy 
Sent from my iPad 
On Feb 25, 2016, at 5:23 AM, Immelt, Stephen J. < > wrote: 
Kathy 
I don't want to pester you, but in the hope that you are still intrigued, I wanted to suggest that we try to set up 
an opportunity for you to meet Michael Davison, our global head of litigation. MIchael is an International 
Arbitration specialist based in London and a key player. He is also a lot of fun, notwithstanding his Scottish 
upbringing. 
Let me know. 
Best, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026379 
Steve 
About Hogan LoveIls 
Hogan LoveIls is an international legal practice that includes Hogan LoveIls US LLP and Hogan LoveIls 
International LLP. For more information, see www.hoganlovells.com. 
CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential, except where the email states it can be 
disclosed. It may also be privileged. If received in error, please do not disclose the contents to anyone, but 
notify the sender by return email and delete this email (and any attachments) from your system. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026380 
