From: Richard Kahn 
Sent: 5/29/2019 10:28:52 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Wolff Book 
Importance: High 
i am sure you read attached 
articles already on internet.. 
https://www.rawstory.com/2019/05/new-book-paints-sordid-picture-of-trump-real-estate-deal-involving-
russian-oligarch-and-jeffrey-epstein/  
New book paints sordid picture of Trump real estate 
deal involving Russian oligarch and Jeffrey Epstein 
By Travis Gettys - May 29, 2019 
President Donald Trump departs the White House for Palm Beach, FL (Shutterstock) 
AddThis Sharing Buttons 
Share to Flipboard 
Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Share to LinkedIn Share to More 
A new book claims Jeffrey Epstein played a key role in a shady Palm Beach real estate deal between President 
Donald Trump and a Russian oligarch. 
Michael Wolff's forthcoming book, "Siege," details the 2004 property deal that involved the future president, 
Deutsche Bank, a child predator and an ally of Russian president Vladimir Putin, reported The Guardian. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030989 
ADVERTISING 
According to Wolff's account, Epstein showed his friend Trump a $55 million mansion he planned to buy, but 
Trump instead went behind his back to buy the foreclosed property for about $40 million. 
Epstein didn't believe Trump could raise that much money on his own, through an entity called Trump 
Properties LLC that was entirely financed by Deutsche Bank, Wolff wrote. 
The billionaire financier knew Trump had been loaning out his name in real estate deals for a fee, and he 
suspected the freshly minted reality TV star was fronting for the mansion's real owners. 
74-.PUP. 
Epstein threatened to expose the deal until he found himself under investigation by Palm Beach police for child 
sex abuse and human trafficking, and he eventually served 13 months in county jail as part of a controversial 
plea agreement brokered by Trump's future Labor Secretary Alex Acosta. 
Trump later put the mansion on the market for $125 million, despite making only minor improvements to the 
property. 
It was purchased for $96 million by Dmitry Rybolovlev, a Kremlin-linked industrialist — which meant Trump 
made $55 million on the deal despite risking none of his own money. 
Wolff offers two possible theories for the deal. 
The author suspects that Trump may have earned a fee for hiding a shadow owner who possibly was funneled 
cash by Rybolovlev for reasons beyond the property's value. 
Or, Wolff theorizes, Rybolovlev essentially bought the house from himself, with Trump as an intermediary, to 
launder ill-gotten money. 
"This," Wolff wrote, "was Donald Trump's world of real estate." 
Rybolovlev tore down the mansion in 2016 and sold off the property as three lots for less than the $115 million 
he had invested in it. 
Top of Form 
Don't let Silicon Valley control what you see. Get more stories like this 
in your inbox, every day. 
Email Address 
Bottom of Form 
AddThis Sharing Buttons 
Share to Flipboard 
Share to Facebook 
Share to Twitter 
Share to LinkedIn Share to More 
Report typos and corrections to corrections@rawstory.com 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030990 
Next on Raw Story > 
Russia is 'likely' conducting nuclear testing — despite Trump's friendship with Putin: US intel agencies 
Richard Kahn 
HBRK Associates Inc. 
575 Lexington Avenue 4th Floor 
New York, NY 10022 
tel 
fax 
cell 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030991 
