September 13, 2017 
6910 Great Bay. S. Thomas. USVI 00802 
BoardStThomas@aol.com 
1.340-71S-9042 
Dear Fellow Ritz-Carlton Club Member, 
If you've been following the TV news, you already know that St. Thomas has taken a dreadful hit by 
Hurricane Irma. President Donald Trump, who has authorized disaster relief for the Virgin Islands, plans to 
visit St. Thomas "in the next six or seven days" according to Governor Kenneth Mapp. 
Our Club appears to have stood up reasonably well, at least when compared with the devastation 
elsewhere on the island. Many homes have been reduced to rubble, including those of some of our employees 
as you have heard. The insurance adjusters arrived today, an important step in obtaining the detailed damage 
and insurance information. The damage seems to grow from the far end of the beach toward the Hotel, with 
only modest damage in the Lily Building, more damage in Gardenia and Heliconia and even more at the Hotel. 
About 40% of our Residences are currently usable—with electricity and air conditioning—and they are 
fully occupied mostly by our employees. Many of these employees have returned to work, notwithstanding the 
hardships in their personal lives. 70% of the exterior lighting has been restored. Road and pathways on our 
property have been cleared. Work has also begun on restoring the landscaping, which was decimated by Irma. 
The Food Center is back open. Some electricity has been restored in the downtown area. Many ATM machines 
are now operational but with most limiting cash withdrawals to $100. 
The airport is still closed to commercial traffic. We know that some of our roofs have been damaged. 
Our air conditioners have been damaged. Some windows were broken and some doors were blown in by the 
200 mph gusts. So we know there is water damage. But we don't know how much. Communication is still a 
major challenge. There is no internet service at the club yet and cell service on our side of the island is 
extremely spotty. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026759 
There has been some looting and other lawlessness in some areas. Local law enforcement is now 
supported by resources from our federal and state governments. Our on-site team reports that we have 
been spared that threat. In addition to our own Loss Prevention staff, our Management Company has 
hired an independent security team to help protect our property. 
One of the most important questions we must address is just when our Club might open again. The 
Club is closed through October 7 and Member Services is not presently taking any reservations through 
December 17. There is a strong possibility that our re-start date could hinge on when the rest of St. 
Thomas recovers, and it is simply impossible to predict that date at this time. Your Board and the 
Management team are monitoring this closely and we will keep you apprised. 
And finally, we thank all who have contributed to the GBCOA Employee Relief Fund. Our Ladies 
and Gentlemen are in desperate need of your help. They deeply appreciate whatever you may offer to 
help, as does the Board. Thank you! 
GREAT BAY CONDOMINIUM OWNERS ASSOCIATION, INC. 
6910 GREAT BAY; ST. THOMAS USVI 00802 
President: John Doyle 
Vice-President Abbey Chung 
Treasurer: Thomas Doyle 
Secretary: Michael Gick 
Director: Steve Redan 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026760 
