From: Kathy Ruemmler 
Sent: 10/24/2014 6:25:22 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fwd: Story on you 
Importance: High 
----------Forwarded message---------- 
From: "Pickier, Nedra" <UWIIIMIII> 
Date: Oct 24, 2014 2:23 PM 
Subject: Story on you 
To: "Kathy Ruemmler" < 
Cc: 
Slug: 
Headline: 
Extended Headline: 
Byline: 
Bytitle: 
BC-US--Obama-Attorney Genera1,2nd Ld-Writethru 
Former Obama lawyer nixes attorney general offer 
Former White House counsel turns down chance to succeed Eric Holder as attorney 
general 
By NEDRA PICKLER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON (AP) — Former White House counsel Kathryn Ruemmler has told President Barack Obama 
she doesn't want to be nominated for attorney general, after he asked her to consider succeeding Eric Holder, 
people familiar with the discussions told The Associated Press on Friday. 
Ruemmler was concerned that her experience as a close adviser to the president would have led to a difficult 
confirmation process in the current highly charged partisan environment, the sources said, speaking on a 
condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss private discussions. They say Ruemmler, a 
top official at the Justice Department before moving to the White House, was also concerned that could ignite 
political attacks against Obama. 
Ruemmler's withdrawal, in a phone call to the president Wednesday, leaves no obvious front-runner to replace 
Holder, who announced a month ago that he would step down once a replacement was confirmed. Ruemmler 
brought the law enforcement bonafides of a former prosecutor in the Bush administration who won convictions 
against Enron's executives and the national security expertise of a top White House official. 
Other candidates that administration officials have said have been considered include Solicitor General Don 
Verrilli; Labor Secretary Tom Perez; Loretta Lynch, U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York; Preet 
Bharara, U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York; Jenny Durkan, who resigned as U.S. attorney in 
Washington state last month; former Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano; Tony West, who recently 
resigned as the No. 3 official at the Justice Department and has taken a job at Pepsico; and Deputy Homeland 
Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas. 
Ruemmler, now a partner at Latham & Watkins specializing in government investigations, had the closest 
relationship of the attorney general candidates to the president after serving as his legal gatekeeper at the White 
House. But that relationship also would have brought tough scrutiny, with Republicans likely to question her 
handling of controversies involving the IRS, Benghazi and the investigation of a White House volunteer in a 
prostitution scandal. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026605 
Obama's aides say he has not yet made up his mind on whom to nominate and won't announce a choice until 
after the Nov. 4 elections, in part to avoid making the nominee into a political issue facing embattled 
Democratic candidates. They say he also hasn't decided whether to seek confirmation in the Senate's lame duck 
session later this year or to wait until the new year, when Republicans are expected to pick up seats if not win 
outright control. 
White House chief of staff Denis McDonough said in a statement, "Kathy is someone who always tells it like it 
is, is a world class lawyer and remains a trusted adviser to the president. Anyone who knows Kathy knows she 
has impeccable judgment, extraordinary foresight and is a formidable force. But she is also as selfless as they 
come, and the president is proud to call her a close friend." 
Follow Nedra Pickler on Twitter at https://twitter.com/nedrapickler 
The information contained in this communication is intended for the use 
of the designated recipients named above. If the reader of this 
communication is not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified 
that you have received this communication in error, and that any review, 
dissemination, distribution or copying of this communication is strictly 
prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please 
notify The Associated Press immediately by telephone at +1-212-621-1898  
and delete this email. Thank you. 
[IP US DISC] 
msk decc60c6d2c3a6438f0cf467d9a4938 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026606 
