From: Darren Indyke 
To: Jackie Perczel 
Date: 4/7/2011 1:44 PM 
Subject: Privileged and Confidential 
Attachments: Attorneys Say Miami Prosecutors Violated Crime Victims' Rights Act I Main Justice.pdf; 
Attorneys want Jeffrey Epstein agreement thrown out.pdf; Edwards Articles - Rush Interview 2.pdf; 
Edwards Articles - Rush Interview.pdf; Part.005 
Additional Articles. 
Darren K. Indyke 
Darren K. Indyke, PLLC 
301 East 66th Street, 10B 
New York, New York 10065 
Telephone: (212) 517-2052 
Direct: (646) 862-4817 
Fax: (212) 517-7779 
email: dkiesq@aol.com 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013405 
Attorneys Say Miami Prosecutors Violated Crime Victims' Rights Act I Main Justice 
4/7/11 1:38 PM 
y Epstein (gov) 
JEGOTIATING WITH THE DOJ: 
;TRATEGIES FOR OPTIMAL RESULTS 
FREE Webinar - Wed., April 13 
About Got Tips? Login or Registe-
/16iINI JUSTICE 
!TICS, POLICY AND THE LAW 
ANT1-CORRUPTION 
gl MAN JUSTICE 
BRACEWELL 
&GIULIANI 
Search 
Wanted:  
Lawyers with 
DOJ Experience 
00 
THURSDAY, APRIL 07, 2011 Email or Username 
orneys Say Miami Prosecutors Violated Crime Victims' Rights Act 
tephanie Woodrow I March 22, 2011 11:52 am 
Printable Version 
Ise attorneys for two girls who contend they were assaulted by billionaire and Rights/Reprints 
cted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein filed court papers on Monday claiming the 
i U.S. Attorney's office violated the Crime Victims' Rights Act by signing a nonprosecution agreement with Epstein 
ut notifying them, the Palm Beach Daily News reported. 
Epstein served 13 months in jail from June 2008 to July 2009 for one state count of soliciting 
an underage girl for prostitution. As a result, he is required to register as a sex offender. While 
he wasn't prosecuted for additional charges, more than 40 girls under the age of 18 say they 
came to his home and gave him massages. During the massages, they say, he masturbated 
and sexually assaulted them. 
Brad Edwards and Paul Cassell, attorneys representing two of his alleged victims, say in 
the filing that the U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern District of Florida of deliberately 
misled the victims by telling them there was an ongoing investigation into their claims. 
However, they say, the office was concealing the fact that they already had signed a 
-osecution deal with Epstein. 
-ding to the motion, the U.S. Attorney's office in January 2008 and May 2008 sent "false notification" letters in to 
in's alleged victims saying "(t)his case is currently under investigation." However, the office had signed the agreement 
Epstein in September 2007. 
ittorneys want a court hearing during which they will ask that the agreement be invalidated because it violated the 
is' rights. In the motion, the attorneys claim the agreement is illegal because the government did not protect the 
Iressionally mandated rights of victims before it entered this agreement." 
dge grants the request, Epstein could be charged by the U.S. Attorney's office. If he were charged and convicted on 
al charges, he could be sentenced to 10 years to life for each charge. 
-ding to the motion, "The only reason that the (U.S. Attorney's office) concealed the existence of the non-prosecution 
r'nent from the victims was not to comply with some legal restriction, but rather to avoid a firestorm of public 
)versy that would have erupted if the sweetheart plea deal with a politically connected billionaire had been revealed." 
Valle, special counsel for the U.S. Attorney's Office Southern District of Florida, in an email to the newspaper that the 
kttorney's office will respond in court filings. 
ever, as we stated more than two years ago in July 2008 in our response to the plaintiffs' then-emergency petition for 
cement of the Crime Victim Rights Act, the CVRA was not violated because no federal charges were ever filed in the 
lem District of Florida," Valle said. "Because the matter remains pending in court, it would be inappropriate at this time 
wide additional comment on the merits of the current motion." 
TC 1-1 DACTC• 
Remember me: (51 
l[ 
JUSTJOBS] 
U.S. ATTORNEYS CHART (hteractivel 
ii 
Track leadership changes in the 93 U.S. Attorney 
offices, with Bush holdovers and Obama 
candidates. 
COVI NGTON 
COVINGTON & BURLING LLP 
Recognized for its Leading 
White Collar Crime and 
Anti-Corruption Practices by 
Chambers and Legal 500 
Decisions about who, where and how 
to prosecute have always been—and 
must remain—the responsibility of the 
executive branch." - Attorney General 
Eric Holder discussing pressure from 
members of Congress to prosecute 
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed before a 
military commission rather than in 
http:/ /www.mainjustice.com/2011 /03/22 /attorneys-say-miam i-prosecutors-violated-crime-victims'-rights-act/ 
Page 1 of 2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013406 
Attorneys Say Miami Prosecutors Violated Crime Victims' Rights Act I Main Justice 4/7/11 1:38 PM 
I 
federal court. 
lama To Tap Non-Profit Head For DOJ Crime Victims Post 
wmakers Bemoan Lack of Funding For Victims' Rights 
psecutor Who Violated Rights of Islamic Groups by Accident is Now U.S Attorney 
mocratic Donor Violated Spirit of Election Laws, LA Prosecutors Say 
deral Prosecutors Violated Laws, Ethics Rules in 201 Cases Since 1998, Study Finds 
LDER POST NEWER POST 
'erez Asks States to Help Enforce ADA Protections for Facing Hiring Freeze, Kansas U.S. Attorney Wants More  
tudents Lawyers  
nents are closed 
le I About I Advertise I Jobs I Privacy Policy I Terms of Use 
DEPARTMENT NEWS 
SES 
Associate Attorney General Tom Perrelli Speaks at 
the Department of Educationa00s Gender-Based 
Violence Summit 
Comverse Technology INC. Agrees to Pay $1.2 
Million Penalty to Resolve Violations of the 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
Attorney General Eric Holder Speaks at National 
Action Networka00s 13th Annual Convention 
Shenandoah, Pennsylvania, Man Senteced for 
Involvement in the Fatal Beating of Luis Ramirez 
New Jersey Wastewater Treatment and Chemical 
Supply Company and Owner Sentenced for Their 
Role in Fraud Conspiracy 
Alabama Doctor and Husband Charged with Tax 
Evasion 
Tax Defendant Indicted for Filing False Liens for 
Billions of Dollars Against Federal Law 
Enforcement 
JGC Corporation Resolves Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act Investigation and Agrees to Pay a 
$218.8 Million Criminal Penalty 
Attorney General Eric Holder Speaks at National 
Forum on Youth Violence Prevention Summit 
Five Individuals Indicted for Alleged Roles in 
Scheme to Defraud Program Providing Matching 
Funds Contributions to Non-Profit Organization 
Government Sites 
Department of Justice 
House Judiciary Committee 
Office of Government Ethics 
Office of Legal Counsel 
Office of Professional Responsiblity 
Senate Judiciary Committee 
http://www.mainjustice.com/2011/03/22/attorneys-say-miami-prosecutors-violated-crime-victims'-rights-act/ 
Copyright @ 2011 WDC Media LLC 
Page 2 of 2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013407 
Attorneys want Jeffrey Epstein agreement thrown out 
4/7/11 1:37 PM 
Register Now I Sign In I E-mail preferences 
Palm Beath, FL 
L: 714 
Forecasi. I SA Location Feels Like. 55' 
Thursday, April 7, 2011 Subscribe Renew CLASSIFIEDS I REAL ESTATE I DINING I SPECIAL SECTIONS 
HOME I NEWS I SOCIETY I BUSINESS I ARTS I FASHION I OBITUARIES I OPINION I LIFESTYLES I HOME & LOGGIA I SHINY SHOTS I BLOGS I ADVERTISE 
CONTACT US 
Home > Palm Beach News 
Attorneys want Jeffrey Epstein agreement thrown out 
LATEST NEWS 
Today: Thursday, April 7, 
2011 
I. Talk at Sea Gull Cottage to 
focus on genomics 
lw Palm Beach Women's 
International Film Festival 
debuts Thursday in support of 
women filmmakers 
Day Academy pupils revisit 
notable characters in Palm 
Beach history 
lw Gov. Scott at Midtown 
Beach: 'Give me the list,' he 
tells officials about beach 
concerns 
By MICHELE DARGAN 
DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER 
Updated: 9:41 a.m. Wednesday, March 23, 2011 
Posted: 7:21 p.m. Monday, March 21, 2011 
E-mail I Print I Share I Larger Type 
Court papers filed Monday say the U.S. Attorney's Office violated 
the Crime Victims' Rights Act by signing a nonprosecution 
agreement with sex offender Jeffrey Epstein without notifying his 
victims. 
Attorneys Brad Edwards and Paul Cassell, representing Jane Doe 
#1 and Jane Doe #2, want a court hearing, where they will ask that 
the agreement be invalidated because, they say, the victims' rights 
were violated. If that happens, it could open up the 58-year-old 
Palm Beach billionaire to a slew of federal charges involving sex 
crimes with minors that were set aside by the agreement. 
The motion, filed Monday in federal court in West Palm Beach, 
accuses the U.S. Attorney's Office of deliberately misleading the 
victims by telling them the investigation was ongoing, while 
concealing they had already signed a deal with Epstein. 
According to the motion, the U.S. Attorney's Office sent "false 
notification" letters in January 2008 and May 2008 to the victims 
saying "(t)his case is currently under investigation" after the 
government had signed the agreement with Epstein in September 
2007. 
"The only reason that the (U.S. Attorney's Office) concealed the 
existence of the non-prosecution agreement from the victims was 
not to comply with some legal restriction, but rather to avoid a 
firestorm of public controversy that would have erupted if the 
sweetheart plea deal with a politically connected billionaire had been 
revealed," the motion says. 
If Epstein were found guilty on federal charges, statutory penalties 
ranged from 10 years to life. 
Instead, the sealed pact was part and parcel of Epstein's 
acceptance of a state plea deal, where he received an 18-month 
sentence for soliciting a minor for prostitution and soliciting 
prostitution. He served 13 months segregated in a vacant wing of 
the county stockade and was let out on work release six days a 
week for up to 16 hours a day. 
Edwards and other attorneys fought in court for a year before 
successfully getting the agreement unsealed in September 2009. 
More than 30 minor girls were identified as Epstein's victims in the 
nact 
Site Q Web 
1. SEARCH 
Web Search by YAHOO! 
PALM BEACH ESTATE 
_314. 
241 La Puerta Way, Palm Beach 
Exquisitely designed Mediterranean Palm Beach 
walled estate. >> More Details 
corcoran.com 
tz 
pTOWN OF PALM BEACH ( 
1911. CENTENNIAL • 2011 V 
icr Click here for the latest events! icb 
Find us on Facebook 
Palm Beach Daily News 
Like 
2,413 people like Palm Beach Daily News. 
Stanton 
Jackie 
Todd 
Diana 
Joe 
Goharians James Karen 
Facebook social plugin 
MOST RECENT ALBUMS 
The Palm Beach The Society of the Pamella Roland 
Opera Four Arts benefit 
http://www.palmbeachdailynews.com/news/attorneys-want-jeffrey-epstein-agreement-thrown-out-1338111.html 
Page 1 of 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013408 
Attorneys want Jeffrey Epstein agreement thrown out 4/7/11 1:37 PM 
More  
Doe 1 and 2, who were 14 and 13, respectively, at the time of the 
incidents, received monetary settlements in civil cases. They are 
among more than two-dozen underage girls who filed lawsuits or 
settled claims against Epstein, alleging they were lured to his Palm 
Beach mansion to give him sexually charged massages and/or sex 
in exchange for money. 
The motion filed Monday says the agreement is illegal because the 
government did not protect the "Congressionally mandated rights of 
victims before it entered this agreement." 
Alicia Valle, special counsel for the U.S. Attorney's Office Southern 
District of Florida, said in an e-mail that the U.S. Attorney's Office 
will respond in court filings. 
"However, as we stated more than two years ago in July 2008 in our 
response to the plaintiffs' then-emergency petition for enforcement 
of the Crime Victim Rights Act, the CVRA was not violated because 
no federal charges were ever filed in the Southern District of 
Florida," Valle said. "Because the matter remains pending in court, it 
would be inappropriate at this time to provide additional comment on 
the merits of the current motion." 
The attorneys reference e-mails and letters from the federal office to 
Epstein's lawyers acknowledging the government's legal obligation 
to inform victims about the pact. The e-mails are redacted in the 
motion because they are under seal. The attorneys filed a separate 
motion Monday to unseal the correspondence. 
"The reasonable inference from the evidence is that the U.S. 
Attorney's Office wanted to keep the agreement a secret to avoid 
intense criticism that would surely ensued had the victims and the 
public learned that a billionaire sex offender with political 
connections had arranged to avoid federal prosecution for numerous 
felony sex offenses against minor girls," the motion says. "As part of 
this pattern of deception, the U.S. Attorney's Office discussed victim 
notification with the defendant sex offender and, after he raised 
objections, stopped making notifications." 
Epstein sought "a higher level of review" within the Department of 
Justice, the motion says. "A reasonable inference from the evidence 
is that Epstein used his significant political and social connections to 
lobby the Justice Department to avoid significant federal 
prosecution," the motion states. 
Share this article: 
COMMENTS 
Comments are closed 
NEWS 	SOCIETY 	WEATHER 	ARTS 	ADVERTISE 	SPECIAL SECTIONS 
Religion 	Insider 	SPORTS 	Arts Calendar 	SERVICES 	Palm Beach Life 
Archives 	Social Calendar 	Polo 	OBITUARIES 	Subscriber Services 	Home & Loggia 
ProfilePalmBeach Madoff 	FASHION 	WEF 	LIFESTYLES 	Help & FAQ 	Automotive & Yacht Showcase 
Special Reports 	Fashion Calendar 	BUSINESS 	Locations 	Visitors' Guide 
Town Council 	Announcements 	Reprints 	Season in Review 
Feral Cats 	OPINION 	BLOGS 	Food 	Staff 	Hurricane Guide 2010 
Plaza 	Local Voices 	COLUMNISTS 	Worvenue th A 	Privacy ic Pol Y 	Chamber of Commerce 
Reach 8 	Letters to the Editor 	Pets 	About Us 	Newsletter 
Health 	Submit a Letter 	Visitor Agreement Subscribe 
REAL ESTATE 
http:/ /www.palmbeachdailynews.com/news/attorneys-want-jeffrey-epstein-agreement-th rown-out-1338111.html Page 2 of 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013409 
Attorneys want Jeffrey Epstein agreement thrown out 4/7/11 1:37 PM 
Copyright@ Thu Apr 07 13:33:34 EDT 2011 All rights reserved. By using PalmBeachDailyNews.corn, you accept the terms of our visitor agreement. Please read it. 
Contact PalmBeachDailyNews.com I Privacy Policy I About our ads 
CrES1 ENABLED 
catmEloTh 
http://www.palmbeachdailynews.com/news/attorneys-want-jeffrey-epstein-agreement-thrown-out-1338111.html Page 3 of 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013410 
Palm Beach Daily News: Archives 
4/7/11 1:35 PM 
PalmBeachDailyNpnc9rEn 
0 site 0 web [ 
_11:1 
:NICA ICir_)! 
Newsletter Center I Log In 
Start or 
Renew Your 
Subscription 
Thursday, April 7, 2011 
HOME NEWS SOCIETY BUSINESS ARTS FASHION OBITUARIES OPINION LIFESTYLES SHINY SHOTS ADVERTISE CONTACT US 
Search for Palm 
Beach Daily News 
Follow @ShinySheet 
on Twitter! 
NEWS 
im Beach Daily News Electronic Edition Now Available! 
dick Here To Subscribe 
Religion I Archives 
E?I E-mail this page 'ra Print this page 'C-? Most popular 
New Search Return to results Printer Friendly 
About your archives purchase: 
Your purchase of 20 articles expires on 04/07/2011 4:22 PM. 
You have viewed 3 articles and have 17 articles remaining. 
Palm Beach Daily News (FL) 
JUDGE RECEIVES EPSTEIN TAPE 
RULING PENDING 
MICHELE DARGAN, Daily News Staff Writer 
Published: May 5, 2010 
NEW YORK -- A Manhattan federal judge Tuesday took into custody a tape-recorded conversation 
between veteran newspaper reporter George Rush and convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. 
But U.S. District Judge Lawrence M. McKenna reserved ruling on whether the recording will be released to 
attorneys representing young women who were sexually abused by Epstein as minors. McKenna didn't 
listen to the recording during the hearing. Fort Lauderdale attorney Brad Edwards and Utah attorney and 
law professor Paul Cassell are fighting to obtain the 22-minute tape on behalf of Epstein victim Jane Doe. 
She has filed one of a dozen pending civil cases in federal court in West Palm Beach against Epstein. 
A status check is set for Thursday in those cases before U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra. 
Doe could have settled the lawsuit for $50,000 but is asking for $50 million in damages, Cassell said 
Tuesday. "Jane Doe was repeatedly sexually assaulted over a lengthy period of time by this wealthy and 
powerful man," Cassell said. 
Epstein, 57, is currently under house arrest in his Palm Beach home after serving 13 months of an 18-
month state sentence for soliciting a minor for prostitution and soliciting prostitution. Nearly two dozen 
young women have filed lawsuits against the billionaire money manager -- some already settled -- all 
alleging Epstein sexually abused them as minors at his El Brillo Way home. 
Cites reporter's protected privilege 
Rush, of the New York Daily News, was present in the courtroom, but did not have to testify Tuesday. 
Neither did Fort Lauderdale private investigator Michael Fisten, also in the courtroom. Working on behalf 
of Epstein victims, Fisten discovered the existence of the tape and had a conversation with Rush about its 
contents. 
Representing Rush and the newspaper, Washington attorney Laura Handman and New York Daily News 
attorney Anne Carroll argued the tape should not be released under any circumstances, citing reporter's 
protected privilege. Rush told Epstein the conversation was "off the record" and has never published any 
portion of that conversation. But even if portions had been printed, the unpublished portions would still be 
protected, Handman said. 
Handman cited cases where interviews were conducted in the presence of other people and privilege was 
not waived. 
In addition, Handman argued that Rush should not have to testify in court. 
The ability for reporter's privilege to be protected is crucial in culling sources and gathering information for 
news stories, Handman said. Reporting is all about give and take between the reporter and the source; 
that's what reporters have to do, Handman said. 
"This is so critical to news gathering," Handman said. "Mr. Rush could find himself testifying in [many] 
cases just because he had the temerity to do some reporting on a very important story." 
There is nothing helpful to Doe's case on the tape and "Jane Doe is not referred to once in that tape," 
Handman said. 
Cassell argued that the tape is "critical in showing Epstein's lack of remorse." 
Cassell described Epstein as a pitiless sexual abuser to Jane Doe and at least 30 other minor girls. Even 
though Jane Doe is not referred to by name on the tape, Epstein refers to his victims as "the girls" and 
makes disparaging remarks about them on the tape, Cassell said. 
Tape played for others 
Cassell said privilege does not apply because it was waived when Rush played the tape for three people 
and verbally divulged its contents to two others, including Fisten and Edwards, who also represents two 
other victims. But even if there is "qualified privilege," Cassell says, it is outweighed by Doe's inability to 
obtain the information anywhere else and the jury's need to hear Epstein's own words about his lack of 
remorse. 
Since Epstein has exercised his Fifth Amendment right during questioning by victims' attorneys, the jury 
Classifieds 
Real Estate 
Advertise 
Automotive 
,Ifisotp 
DLO
/CI 
by 
Shannon Donnelly 
http://nLnewsban k.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_action=doc&p_doci...ername=dkiesq&s_accountid=AC0111040620221012261&s_upgradeable=no Page 1 of 2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013411 
Palm Beach Daily News: Archives 4/7/11 1:35 PM 
will have no other way to hear Epstein's words in his own voice, Cassell said. 
Deadline for discovery in the Doe case is May 31, with the trial set for July 14. 
mdargan@pbdailynews.com 
Copyright (c) 2010 Palm Beach Daily News 
Refinance Rates at 2.650/0  
$160,000 Mortgage for $659/mo. No SSN req 
LendGo.com/Mortgage 
Do NOT Buy Car Insurance  
We found out how drivers can get 
www.News7BreakingNews.com 
Man "Cheats" Credit Score  
He Added 126 Points To His Credit Score 
www.CreditRepairFromHome.com 
$79/Hr Job - 262 Openings  
Make $79/hr Working From Home. As seen on 
www.workfromhomeguide.net/jobs 
Ads by Yahoc 
By using this service you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement. 
Copyright 2007 Palm Beach Daily News. All rights reserved. 
The Palm Beach Daily News 
Privacy Policy I About this site I Write to us 
Nms LED  
http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_action=doc&p_doci...ername=dkiesg&s_accountid=AC0111040620221012261&s_upgradeable=no Page 2 of 2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013412 
Palm Beach Daily News: Archives 
4/7/11 1:32 PM 
Powered (-)C) 
0 site 0 web 
HOME NEWS 
SOCIETY BUt.„,„, 
IR Search for Palm 
Beach Daily News 
Follow @ShinySheet 
on Twitter! 
NEWS 
Newsletter Center I Log In 
Classifieds 
Real Estate 
Religion I Archives 
E?I E-mail this page '6a Print this page 'C-? Most popular 
New Search Return to results Printer Friendly 
About your archives purchase: 
Your purchase of 20 articles expires on 04/07/2011 4:22 PM. 
You have viewed 2 articles and have 18 articles remaining. 
Palm Beach Daily News (FL) 
LAWYER: EPSTEIN MADE ADMISSIONS ON TAPE 
MICHELE DARGAN, Daily News Staff Writer 
Published: April 29, 2010 
A tape recorded interview between a reporter and convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein contains 
"damning admissions by Epstein," which includes Epstein saying he had come "close to crossing a line" 
concerning sex with underage girls. 
Those and other revelations about the 22-minute interview by New York Daily News reporter George Rush 
with Epstein are contained in a 24-page court filing by attorneys Brad Edwards and Paul Cassell on behalf 
of Jane Doe. Edwards represents Doe and two other Epstein victims. Edwards and Cassell are fighting to 
obtain the tape to further their case of sexual abuse by Epstein when Doe was a minor. 
Epstein, 57, was released from jail in July after serving 13 months of an 18-month state sentence for 
soliciting a minor for prostitution and soliciting prostitution. Nearly two dozen young women have filed 
lawsuits against Epstein -- some already settled -- all alleging Epstein sexually abused them as minors at 
his El Brillo Way home, where he is now serving house arrest. 
The New York Daily News is seeking to keep the tape confidential, citing reporter's protected privilege. 
In response, Cassell says the newspaper waived its protected privilege when Rush played the recording 
for three people and described its contents to two others, including Edwards. 
In addition, Cassell writes that privilege can't be applied in this situation because it doesn't involve an 
issue related to a confidential source. The person on the tape is Epstein. 
Even if there is "qualified privilege," Cassell maintains it is outweighed by Doe's inability to obtain the 
information anywhere else and her "compelling need to obtain Jeffrey Epstein's own words about his 
sexual abuse and lack of remorse." 
When reached by phone Wednesday, Anne Carroll, attorney for the New York Daily News, said she will 
answer Cassell in a court filing. Both the New York Daily News and Doe have asked a federal court judge 
in Manhattan to listen to the tape in chambers to help determine whether privilege applies. 
Epstein and others who helped him procure minor girls for massages and sex acts have taken the Fifth 
Amendment in their depositions, stymieing Doe and the other victims suing Epstein, the documents say. 
Michael Fisten, an investigator working for Doe, discovered the existence of the tape in fall 2009. An 
author who had listened to the tape told Fisten that Rush had a tape recording of Epstein "discussing the 
sexual abuse of minor girls." 
According to a sworn affidavit by Fisten, he called Rush, who confirmed he interviewed Epstein and made 
a tape. According to Fisten, Rush told him that he compiled negative information from Epstein about his 
exploits with underage girls and how he eluded the justice system. But Fisten said that Rush told him that 
his publisher, who knows Epstein, killed it after receiving a call from Epstein. 
Fisten said Rush told him, among other things, that the following information was contained on the tape: 
That Epstein said he went to jail in Florida for no reason and if the sexual abuse of minors had happened 
in New York, he would have only received a $200 fine. 
That L.M., one of Edwards' clients who sued Epstein for sexual abuse as a minor, came to him as a 
prostitute and a drug user (meaning she came to him for sex, rather than him pursuing her). 
That all the girls suing him are only trying to get a meal ticket. 
That the only thing he might have done wrong was to maybe cross the line a little too closely. 
In a sworn deposition, Edwards states that Rush disclosed much of the information contained on the tape 
to him in a conversation. 
Edwards said in his statement that the Rush interview is "unique and not otherwise obtainable from other 
witnesses because it can be used to prove perjury -- a federal crime. 
Edwards said Epstein testified in a deposition that he did not recognize the name George Rush from the 
New York Daily News "despite the fact that he gave a personal interview that we all now know to have 
been tape recorded." 
mdargan@pbdailynews.com 
Start or 
Renew Your 
Subscription 
Thursday, April 7, 2011 
SHINY SHOTS ADVERTISE "NTACT US 
Advertise 
Automotive 
updates in your e-mail 
Sign up to receive 
our e-mail 
newsletters here. 
- 
Palm Beach Daily News 
NEWSLETTERS 
SUBSCRIBE 
http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_action=doc&p_doci...ername=dkiesg&s_accountid=AC0111040620221012261&s_upgradeable=no 
Page 1 of 2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013413 
Palm Beach Daily News: Archives 4/7/11 1:32 PM 
Epstein 
Has 'come close to crossing a line.' 
Copyright (c) 2010 Palm Beach Daily News 
Refinance Rates at 2.650/0  
$160,000 Mortgage for $659/mo. No SSN req 
LendGo.com/Mortgage 
LEAKED: $25 Car Insurance 
Your Auto Insurer hates this. 
News7BreakingNews.com 
Man "Cheats" Credit Score  
He Added 126 Points To His Credit Score 
www.CreditRepairFromHome.com 
$79/Hr Job - 262 Openings  
Make $79/hr Working From Home. As seen on 
www.workfromhomeguide.net/jobs 
Ads by Yahoc 
By using this service you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement. 
Copyright 2007 Palm Beach Daily News. All rights reserved. 
The Palm Beach Daily News 
Privacy Policy I About this site I Write to us 
HABLED 
carviEat—P 
http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_action=doc&p_doci...ername=dkiesg&s_accountid=AC0111040620221012261&s_upgradeable=no Page 2 of 2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013414 
