From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Article 1. 
Jeffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
2/14/2013 8:47:12 PM 
Larry Summers 
Washington Post 
Obama to make first trip  
to Israel, part of a  
potential 'new  
beginning' with region  
Scott Wilson 
President Obama will travel to Israel and 
the occupied Palestinian territories next 
month to make an early second-term push 
for peace negotiations between two 
divided governments and to assess the 
broader political developments remaking 
the Middle East. 
It will be Obama's first trip as president 
to Israel, where suspicions run high in the 
aftermath of his unsuccessful early efforts 
at Middle East peacemaking. 
The choice of destination — one that 
Obama avoided in his first term — 
suggests a revival of his ambitions abroad 
after a year of virtual dormancy on 
foreign affairs. The timing also points to 
a willingness on his part to quickly 
reengage a politically volatile foreign-
Office of Terje Rod-Larsen 
Show details 
Ads — Why these ads? 
Free Spell Check Toolbar  
Avoid Spelling Mistakes with Free 
Spell Checker - Download for Free! 
www.DictionaryBoss.com 
Alkaline Water Benefits  
Download a Free Informational eBook 
on Alkaline Water. 
www.LifeIonizers.com/Alkaline-Water 
FreeCreditScore.comTM  
A Good Credit Score = 700 & Above. 
See Yours Now for $0. 
www.FreeCreditScore.com  
Great Jobs For CNAs/LPNs  
Join Our Team of Qualified Nurses! 
Offering Competitive Salaries. 
www.TowneNursing.com/NursingJobs  
Silver Prices to Drop 25%  
Gain 67% if Buy after Correction. 
As Silver Price Soars into 2013 
www.sovereign-investor.com 
Military Refinance Loan  
3.38% (3.53% APR) No lender fees 
Use your benefit! No appraisal reqd 
www.FreedomMortgage.com 
Online Nursing Programs  
Achieve A Higher Level Of Success! 
Enroll With Walden University Today 
Waldenu.edu/Nursing Degrees  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029779 
policy issue just months after winning his 
second term. 
But the visit will highlight how much the  
region has changed since he last visited 
the Middle East in his first year in office, 
with the rise of Islamist governments and 
the widening repercussions of civil 
revolt. 
After Obama helped topple Moammar  
Gaddafi in Libya in 2011, many in the 
region wondered when he would emerge 
again to help shape the course of the 
tumultuous Arab Spring, which has 
replaced a pair of U.S.-allied 
dictatorships with elected Islamist 
governments. 
Within the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, 
much has changed since the direct peace 
talks Obama inaugurated in September  
2010 collapsed within weeks. Israel's 
recent battle with the armed Hamas 
movement in the Gaza Strip left many  
predicting a wider fight in the future, as 
divisions deepened within the Palestinian 
and Israeli electorates over whether talks 
or war would resolve the conflict. 
"To make it a substantive trip that is 
more than a positive photo-op would 
require setting up a specific framework 
for an agreement and setting a tight 
deadline to achieve it," said Jeremy Ben-
Ami, the executive director of J Street, a 
nonprofit group that advocates the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029780 
creation of a Palestinian state alongside 
Israel. 
White House officials would not provide 
a date for Obama's trip, which he will 
squeeze into the tight schedule he is 
building around a busy domestic agenda 
that includes immigration, guns and the 
economy. 
But Israeli media reported that Obama is 
scheduled to arrive March 20 as part of a 
trip that will include a stop in Jordan, 
where the civil war in next-door Syria 
and its growing refugee crisis is 
presenting a major challenge to King 
Abdullah II, a U.S. ally. 
Obama began his first term by making a 
strong push for peace talks between Israel 
and the Palestinians, believing the 
conflict fueled radicalism in the region in 
general and toward the United States in 
particular, given its historical support for 
the Jewish state. 
In contrast to predecessor George W. 
Bush, Obama wanted to demonstrate to 
Arab governments that the United States 
would make demands of Israel in pursuit 
of a regional peace agreement. 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin 
Netanyahu made little secret of his 
preference for Republican Mitt Romney  
in last year's U.S. presidential campaign. 
Netanyahu and Obama have at times 
disagreed bitterly over issues relating to 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029781 
the Palestinians, including Israel's 
continued settlement construction in the 
West Bank and East Jerusalem. 
Israel's military occupied those 
territories, along with Gaza, in the 1967 
Arab-Israeli war. Palestinians view them 
as the key territorial elements of their 
future state. 
In a June 2009 address in Cairo, a speech 
that asked for a "new beginning" with the 
Islamic world, Obama said: "The United 
States does not accept the legitimacy of 
continued Israeli settlements." He also 
did not stop in Israel on that trip, instead 
visiting Saudi Arabia, Egypt and 
Germany, where he emphasized the  
horror of the Holocaust and the moral 
imperative of defending Israel. Romney, 
among others, made the omission a 
campaign issue. 
But on regional security issues, Obama 
and Netanyahu have deepened 
cooperation amid rising U.S. military aid 
to Israel. Obama has agreed with 
Netanyahu that Iran must not be allowed 
to use its uranium-enrichment program to 
develop a nuclear weapon, an issue that 
the two will discuss during Obama's 
visit. 
Netanyahu's Likud party emerged from 
elections last month as the largest bloc in 
Israel's parliament, meaning that he will 
serve another term as prime minister. But 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029782 
a surprisingly strong showing by a new 
centrist party is likely to put more 
pressure on him to pursue talks. 
"It was a mistake for Obama not to go in 
the first term at a time when it could have 
affected Israeli public opinion of him, 
and now, it has hardened against him to a 
point that I don't believe it can," said 
Elliott Abrams, a senior fellow at the 
Council on Foreign Relations who served 
as a senior Middle East adviser to Bush. 
Obama's visit will coincide with growing 
concern in the region that the two-state 
solution favored by him is in peril, as 
Israeli settlement construction continues 
and as the Islamist Hamas gains clout 
within the once-secular Palestinian 
nationalist movement. Hamas emerged  
stronger politically from the recent clash 
with Israel and continues to reject the 
Jewish state's right to exist. 
Hamas and its secular rival Fatah are due 
to meet Saturday as part of a 
reconciliation process. If an agreement is 
reached and Hamas joins the Palestinian 
Authority, Obama will be faced with an 
awkward decision on whether to meet 
with a government that includes members 
of a U.S.-
designated terrorist movement. 
As he begins again in the region, Obama 
will be advised by new Secretary of State 
John F. Kerry. He has also named former 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029783 
senator Chuck Hagel as defense 
secretary, a nomination still in question 
after an unsteady performance by the 
candidate before the Senate Armed 
Services Committee last week that 
focused in part on his past criticism of 
Israel. 
"This trip is a signal that the president 
has an interest, not just in the peace issue, 
but also in the broader concerns that 
Israel is facing," said Dennis Ross, a 
senior Middle East adviser to Obama 
during his first term who is at the 
Washington Institute for Near East  
Policy. "In some ways, it will be the 
president traveling to Israel to ask for a 
new beginning." 
Article 2. 
Foreign Policy 
Saeb Erekat - The Peace  
Processor  
An interview by Aaron David Miller 
February 5, 2013 -- Other than Mahmoud 
Abbas, Saeb Erekat could be the most 
recognizable Palestinian on the planet. 
The chief Palestinian negotiator is 
certainly among the most passionate in 
promoting the cause. And nobody on the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029784 
Palestinian side knows the substance of 
the issues or the negotiating history 
better. 
I first met Erekat in the late 1980s, while 
working on the Palestinian issue for then 
Secretary of State George Shultz. Back 
then, the U.S.-educated diplomat was 
already showing the brashness and 
outspokenness that would make him one 
of the most memorable -- if exasperating 
-- of the Palestinians with whom we 
dealt. 
He annoyed then Secretary of State 
James Baker by wearing his kaffiyeh 
around his shoulders at the opening of the 
Madrid Peace Conference in October 
1991. And over the years, he continued to 
annoy the Israelis too with his fiery 
performances on CNN -- though to this 
day, key Israeli negotiators, such as Isaac 
Molho, continue to praise his pragmatism 
at the bargaining table. 
It was Erekat's academic bent, analytical 
chops, and capacity to write in English 
that would make him so indispensable to 
the only Palestinian who really counted 
in those days -- Yasir Arafat. Erekat was 
a unique figure -- neither a fighter (no 
nom de guerre for him), nor a PLO 
insider, nor an organization man from 
Tunis. Rather, he was a West Banker 
from Jericho, and he succeeded in 
maintaining his relevance in a Palestinian 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029785 
political scene dominated not by fellow 
academics, but by hard men defined by 
struggle and intrigue. During the heady 
days of the peace process, he became a 
key point of contact for the Americans, 
the Israelis, the Arabs, and much of the 
rest of the international community. 
I came to know Erekat not only as a 
negotiator, but as a person. He sent his 
kids to Seeds of Peace, a conflict 
resolution and coexistence organization 
that I ran briefly after leaving the State 
Department, and my daughter befriended 
his and stayed with the Erekats in 
Jericho. Saeb and I have yelled at each 
other, defended our respective positions, 
laughed, and mourned opportunities that 
were never adequately explored. But 
through it all, what he said about himself 
was true: He wasn't as pro-Palestinian or 
pro-Israeli as much as he was pro-peace. 
That peace has proven elusive to this day. 
But with all our differences -- and there 
are many -- I believe Erekat believes in 
its possibility. Who else would list as an 
"objective" on his resume: "Solve the 
Palestinian-Israeli conflict based on a two 
state negotiated solution through 
diplomatic offices"? 
If, or perhaps when, another effort to 
negotiate a deal is made, one thing is 
clear -- Erekat will be in the middle of it. 
Last week, he agreed to answer my 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029786 
questions on the past and future of the 
Israeli-Palestinian problem. 
FP: What were your best and worst 
moments in the Israeli-Palestinian 
negotiations, and what was the greatest 
missed opportunity? 
Saeb Erekat: Though I was not the chief 
negotiator at that moment, the connection 
between [then Prime Minister Yitzhak] 
Rabin and President Arafat made 
everyone around them, including myself, 
feel that peace was possible. There was 
significant progress in all tracks until 
Rabin's assassination by an Israeli 
terrorist -- after he was killed, no Israeli 
leader had the vision to understand that 
the window of opportunity for a two-state 
solution would close as fast as they 
continued their colonization policies. 
The missed opportunity has definitely 
been Israel throwing away the Arab 
Peace Initiative, which offers 
normalization of relations of 57 countries 
with Israel in exchange for Israeli 
withdrawal to the 1967 border. They 
threw it away by bombing Gaza, by 
intensifying collective punishments, and 
by increasing settlement construction all 
over the occupied West Bank, 
particularly in and around Occupied East 
Jerusalem. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029787 
FP: 2013 is the 20th anniversary of the 
Oslo negotiations. What was Oslo's 
greatest success, and its greatest failure? 
SE: The fact that, two decades after Oslo, 
we are still a nation under occupation 
shows that Israeli governments did derail 
it. The interim accords were not supposed 
to last for 20 years but only five. After 
that, we were going to enjoy freedom and 
sovereignty. 
But Israel increased its settlement 
expansion. In fact, within 20 years, the 
number of settlers almost tripled. The 
institution-building efforts led by the 
Palestinian government have been 
completely undermined by the lack of 
freedom. This situation cannot continue. 
Oslo succeeded in bringing back 250,000 
Palestinians from the diaspora and 
building the capacity for our state. The 
international community failed though, 
by granting Israel an unprecedented 
culture of impunity that allowed them to 
use negotiations as a means to continue 
rather than stop colonization. 
FP: What is the most important 
thing Israelis don't understand about 
Palestinians? 
SE: That we are not going anywhere. As 
simple as that. We are not going to 
disappear just because their government 
builds an annexation wall around us. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029788 
They should close their eyes and imagine 
their state within 10 years time. What do 
they see? If they continue their policies, 
they are going to officially adopt the form 
of an apartheid regime, which I think is 
not what many Israelis want. 
FP: What is the most important thing 
Palestinians have learned about Israelis? 
SE: That Israelis will not take back the 
ships that brought them here to leave 
somewhere else. We got to understand 
that we have to live side by side. The 
rules of engagement, though, cannot be 
those of apartheid, but those of freedom. 
FP: What do you expect from the next 
Israeli government on the peace process? 
SE: I don't think there is room for 
optimism, but our position hasn't 
changed. We don't see any other solution 
than a two-state solution. Any Israeli 
government that recognizes this fact and 
respects what previous governments have 
agreed upon should become a partner for 
peace. 
FP: Is Hamas-Fatah unity possible, and 
what would the impact be on the future of 
Israeli-Palestinian negotiations? 
SE: We expect to have progress in the 
near future, with Hamas allowing the 
Central Elections Commission to register 
new voters in Gaza. I believe there is 
political agreement -- in fact, there is a 
signed agreement. We expect to have 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029789 
elections as soon as possible, which is the 
right way to solve our differences: Let 
our people decide, those in Palestine as 
well as our people in the Diaspora. 
Having said so, Hamas has recognized 
the Palestine Liberation Organization as 
the sole and legitimate representative of 
the Palestinian people, including its 
mandate to negotiate a final status 
agreement with Israel. Once that is 
achieved, we expect to hold a national 
referendum. 
FP: How would you describe Egypt's 
role in the peace process now? What do 
you expect from President Barack 
Obama's administration with regards to 
the peace process? 
SE: Egypt has played a central role, and 
continues to do so. We trust that Egypt, 
under President Mohamed Morsy's 
leadership, will continue to play a strong 
role because Palestine and Egypt have a 
common interest in achieving peace. 
President Obama had stated that he has a 
personal commitment to bring peace to 
the Middle East. We, the Egyptians, and 
the rest of the Arab world tell him that we 
are ready for peace. We have the Arab 
Peace Initiative. This goes in line with 
the stated U.S. national interest. 
Washington's failure to explicitly say that 
Israel is to blame for choosing 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029790 
settlements over peace has contributed to 
Israel's culture of impunity. 
FP: Can America be an effective broker 
in negotiations? 
SE: If the U.S. decides to be an honest 
broker, it could not only be effective but 
in fact could bring real peace to the 
region, a just and lasting one. The U.S. 
has a moral obligation toward the 
Palestinian people, who have been under 
occupation and living in exile for 
decades. 
FP: Is a two state solution still possible? 
SE: Yes, but only if there is a political 
will. So far, Israel's will is about 
colonization, and the international 
community has failed to put an end to 
decades of double standards by treating 
Israel as a state above the law. We don't 
see any other solution than a two-state 
solution, though Israel is taking us to a 
one-state reality. 
Aaron David Miller is a distinguished 
scholar at the Woodrow Wilson 
International Center for Scholars. 
Article 3. 
The Daily Beast 
The Mixed Legacy Of 
Shimon Peres  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029791 
Daniel Gavron 
Feb 4, 2013 -- Now that he has finished 
his consultations with the country's 
political parties and charged Benjamin 
Netanyahu with forming a new coalition, 
Israel's respected President, Shimon 
Peres, is once again very much in the 
news. In his speech inviting Netanyahu to 
form the next government, the President 
spoke forcefully about peace and even 
seemed to influence Bibi to mention 
peace, a word he never used in his 
election campaign. Peres has rightly 
earned respect for this from many 
quarters, but now, as the coalition is 
being formed, it might be a good time to 
examine one aspect of Israel's political 
culture: the lack of respect for the task of 
a parliamentary opposition. Peres is at 
least partly to blame for this, as he almost 
always preferred to join various 
administrations—even as a junior 
partner—rather than lead the opposition, 
ofen citing "our grave situation" and 
"national responsibility." Now is surely 
a better time to criticize Peres than in 
June, when the world (maybe even 
including President Barack Obama) will 
be coming here to celebrate his 90th 
birthday. Then, surely, everyone will be 
paying deserved tribute to the wisdom of 
this elder statesman and prophet of peace, 
and it would be a shame to spoil the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029792 
party. So let's clear the air right now, 
well before the festivities. Before we get 
to the matter of coalition politics, which 
is very much on our minds right now as 
Netanyahu struggles to put together a 
government, let us consider the other 
negative part of the Peres legacy: his stint 
as Defense Minister under Prime Minister 
Yitzhak Rabin from 1974 to 1977. Today 
Peres is widely respected as the architect 
of the Oslo Accord of 1993, achieved 
while he was Foreign Minister. It was the 
first political move toward a settlement 
between Israel and the Palestinians, and 
Peres deserves huge credit for securing 
the agreement. However, two decades 
earlier, as Defense Minister, he supported 
the Jewish settlement project in the 
newly-conquered Palestinian territories, 
both overtly and covertly. Not for 
nothing did Rabin label Peres in his 
memoirs as "an indefatigable intriguer." 
In 1975, while Rabin was doing his 
utmost to prevent the settlement of Elon 
Moreh, near Nablus, Peres continuously 
sabotaged his efforts. After no less than 
eight settlement attempts, which were 
ruled illegal by Israel's Supreme Court, a 
"compromise" was reached, and Elon 
Moreh was established five kilometers to 
the east of the original site. Moreover, 
during the furor over Elon Moreh, 
Defense Minister Peres quietly facilitated 
the creation of Ofra, near Ramallah. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029793 
These two settlements, which have 
become flagships of the settlement 
movement, were the start of Jewish 
colonization in Samaria, the northern part 
of the West Bank. The previous year, as 
a young reporter, I interviewed Peres, 
after he and his political ally Moshe 
Dayan had refused "on principle" to join 
the government of Golda Meir. "If a 
single child can learn that politics is not 
just intrigues," Peres told me, "I will be 
satisfied that we have done our bit." Just 
one week later, when he and Dayan had 
reversed their position for no discernable 
reason, and were seated snugly around 
the cabinet table, I asked Peres what he 
had to say to the "single child." His aides 
sniggered, but Peres didn't bat an eyelid: 
"Just what my mentor, David Ben-Gurion 
(Israel's first Prime Minister) told me: 
when the security of Israel is laid on one 
side of the scales, and everything else on 
the other side, security tips the 
balance." Peres subsequently used that 
self-same argument to join every 
government that would have him. The 
late Menachem Begin lost nine elections 
before finally becoming Israel's Prime 
Minister in 1977. He served as a 
pugnacious and dedicated leader of the 
opposition. Peres almost never headed 
the opposition, always preferring a 
ministerial appointment, once even 
designing a grotesque system of 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029794 
"rotation" with Yitzhak Shamir, so that 
he could be in the government. He 
proposed the ideal of "national unity," 
and greatly devalued the democratic 
concept of parliamentary opposition. 
Former Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni 
ruined her reputation when she refused to 
join Netanyahu in his last government. 
While it is quite true that Livni was an 
ineffective opposition leader, it is the 
very fact of her refusal to join the 
administration and "influence it from 
within" that has provoked most of the 
criticism by Israeli political 
commentators. Similar criticism is 
currently being leveled at Labor Party 
leader Shelly Yachimovich for stating 
clearly that she would not join 
Netanyahu's next government, but would 
serve as leader of the opposition. There 
are certainly many reasons to criticize 
Yachimovich, but not her eminently 
democratic decision to lead the 
parliamentary opposition. Very few of 
our political commentators have ever 
expressed respect or even understanding 
for the concept of opposition. The most 
popular political idea in Israel today is 
national unity—better still, a National 
Unity Government: "We should all rally 
round the flag and support our 
government in these critical times." This 
position, widely espoused, echoes what 
Peres has said repeatedly over the years. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029795 
So, although the Peres vision of peace is 
a positive legacy, he has also taught us 
less helpful lessons. The settlements are a 
supremely negative inheritance, but I 
would argue that the anti-democratic 
rejection of the concept of a 
parliamentary opposition is an even more 
harmful bequest handed down to us by 
President Shimon Peres. 
Daniel Gavron, who lives in Israel, is a 
former journalist and the author of nine 
books, the most recent of which is Holy 
Land Mosaic, stories of cooperation and 
coexistence between Israelis and 
Palestinians (Rowman & Littlefield, 
2008). 
Article 4. 
NYT 
India vs. China vs. Egypt 
Thomas L. Friedman  
February 5, 2013 -- New Delhi -- It's 
hard to escape a visit to India without 
someone asking you to compare it to 
China. This visit was no exception, but I 
think it's more revealing to widen the 
aperture and compare India, China and 
Egypt. India has a weak central 
government but a really strong civil 
society, bubbling with elections and 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029796 
associations at every level. China has a 
muscular central government but a weak 
civil society, yet one that is clearly 
straining to express itself more. Egypt, 
alas, has a weak government and a very 
weak civil society, one that was 
suppressed for 50 years, denied real 
elections and, therefore, is easy prey to 
have its revolution diverted by the one 
group that could organize, the Muslim 
Brotherhood, in the one free space, the 
mosque. But there is one thing all three 
have in common: gigantic youth bulges 
under the age of 30, increasingly 
connected by technology but very 
unevenly educated. 
My view: Of these three, the one that will 
thrive the most in the 21st century will be 
the one that is most successful at 
converting its youth bulge into a 
"demographic dividend" that keeps 
paying off every decade, as opposed to a 
"demographic bomb" that keeps going 
off every decade. That will be the society 
that provides more of its youth with the 
education, jobs and voice they seek to 
realize their full potential. 
This race is about "who can enable and 
inspire more of its youth to help build 
broad societal prosperity," argues Dov 
Seidman, the author of "How" and 
C.E.O. of LRN, which has an operating 
center in India. "And that's all about 
leaders, parents and teachers creating 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029797 
environments where young people can be 
on a quest, not just for a job, but for a 
career — for a better life that doesn't just 
surpass but far surpasses their parents." 
Countries that fail to do that will have a 
youth bulge that is not only unemployed, 
but unemployable, he argued. "They will 
be disconnected in a connected world, 
despairing as they watch others build and 
realize their potential and curiosity." 
If your country has either a strong 
government or a strong civil society, it 
has the ability to rise to this challenge. If 
it has neither, it will have real problems, 
which is why Egypt is struggling. China 
leads in providing its youth bulge with 
education, infrastructure and jobs, but 
lags in unleashing freedom and curiosity. 
India is the most intriguing case — if it 
can get its governance and corruption 
under control. The quest for upward 
mobility here, especially among women 
and girls, is palpable. I took part in the 
graduation ceremony for The Energy and 
Resources Institute last week. Of 12 
awards for the top students, 11 went to 
women. 
"India today has 560 million young 
people under the age of 25 and 225 
million between the ages of 10 and 19," 
explained Shashi Tharoor, India's 
minister of state for human resource 
development. "So for the next 40 years 
we should have a youthful working-age 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029798 
population" at a time when China and the 
broad industrialized world is aging. 
According to Tharoor, the average age in 
China today is around 38, whereas in 
India it's around 28. In 20 years, that gap 
will be much larger. So this could be a 
huge demographic dividend — "provided 
that we can educate our youth — offering 
vocational training to some and 
university to others to equip them to take 
advantage of what the 21st-century global 
economy offers," said Tharoor. "If we get 
it right, India becomes the workhorse of 
the world. If we get it wrong, there is 
nothing worse than unemployable, 
frustrated" youth. 
Indeed, some of India's disaffected youth 
are turning to Maoism in rural areas. "We 
have Maoists among our tribal 
populations, who have not benefited from 
the opportunities of modern India," 
Tharoor said. There have been violent 
Maoist incidents in 165 of India's 625 
districts in recent years, as Maoists tap 
into all those left out of the "Indian 
dream." So there is now a huge push here 
to lure poor kids into school. India runs 
the world's biggest midday lunch 
program, serving 250 million free school 
lunches each day. It's also doubled its 
number of Indian Institutes of 
Technology, from eight to 16, and is 
planning 14 new universities for 
innovation and research. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029799 
But this will all be for naught without 
better governance, argues Gurcharan Das, 
the former C.E.O. of Procter & Gamble 
India, whose latest book is "India Grows 
at Night: A Liberal Case for a Strong 
State." "The aspirational India has no one 
to vote for, because no one is talking the 
language of public goods. Why should it 
take us 15 years to get justice in the 
courts or 12 years to build a road? The 
gap between [youth] aspirations and 
government performance is huge. My 
thesis is that India has risen despite the 
state. It is a story of public failure and 
private success." 
That is what Das means by India grows at 
night, when government sleeps. "But 
India must learn to grow during the day," 
he said. "If India fixes its governance 
before China fixes its politics that is who 
will win. ... You need a strong state and a 
strong society, so the society can hold the 
state accountable. India will only get a 
strong state when the best of society join 
the government, and China will only get 
a strong society when the best Mandarins 
go into the private sector." 
Article 5. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029800 
Foreign Policy 
Don't be too sure there  
won't be another U.S.  
war in the Middle East 
Richard L. Russell 
February 5, 2013 -- Shortly before he left 
office in Feb. 2011, Defense Secretary 
Robert Gates told West Point cadets that 
"in my opinion, any future defense 
secretary who advised the president to 
again send a big American land army into 
Asia or into the Middle East or Africa 
should 'have his head examined,' as 
General MacArthur so delicately put it." 
The remark no doubt reflected Sec. 
Gates's fatigue and frustration from the 
enormous intellectual and emotional 
burdens associated with overseeing the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
One suspects, however, that in a more 
reflective moment, Gates would have 
acknowledged that "never say never" is a 
wise rule of thumb in planning for 
military contingencies, especially in the 
region that makes up Central Command's 
area-of-responsibility. Few, for example, 
predicted the 1979 Soviet invasion of 
Afghanistan. Gates himself -- who was a 
senior CIA official during the covert war 
supporting the Afghan resistance -- surely 
did not anticipate then that the United 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029801 
States would have to return to 
Afghanistan two decades later to oust a 
Taliban regime that was harboring 
terrorists. Before 1990, moreover, no one 
predicted that Iraq, having just ended a 
bitter eight-year war with Iran, would 
swing its battered forces south to invade 
Kuwait. 
So if it's conventional wisdom that the 
United States will not, or should not, 
intervene militarily in the Middle East or 
South Asia after it draws down forces in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, it's also likely dead 
wrong. What is true, however, is that 
political and military trajectories in the 
Middle East and South Asia are likely to 
increasingly challenge U.S. contingency 
access in the coming decade. The ability 
for the United States to surge large-scale 
forces into the region, as it did in the 
1990 and 2003 wars against Iraq, will 
grow increasingly circumscribed. The 
United States will have to adapt to this 
new strategic landscape by developing 
more nimble, highly-mobile, stealthy, and 
networked forces, and by abandoning the 
traditional practice of slowly and steadily 
building up conventional forces at 
regional logistic hubs prior to launching 
war. 
* * * 
Perhaps the most significant factor that 
portends against further intervention in 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029802 
the Middle East and South Asia is 
increased political resistance -- and 
outright opposition -- from the countries 
in the region. That resistance is likely to 
come from the new regimes emerging 
from the Arab uprisings, as well as a 
number of Gulf monarchies. 
Indeed, the political trends in the region 
are unlikely to conform to the rosy 
predictions of democratic peace theorists, 
whose musings have implicitly informed 
the security policies of both Republican 
and Democratic administrations for 
decades. Old authoritarian regimes seem 
to be passing the way of the dodo bird, 
but the new regimes taking shape are 
heavily influenced by militant Islamic 
ideology that will make them less likely 
to engage in security or military 
cooperation with the United States. 
Democracy optimists argue that these 
ideological regimes, once entrenched in 
power, will have to moderate their zeal in 
order to govern. Pragmatism will 
ultimately trump ideology. That line of 
reasoning, however, is based on the 
assumption that the policy decisions of 
such regimes can be explained by rational 
choice economic theory. In other words, 
if they want to attract international capital 
and participate in the world economy, 
they are going to have to break with their 
ideological affinities. But that reasoning 
ignores a hard fact of international 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029803 
politics: that time and again, political and 
ideological prerogatives trump economic 
rationality. It made little economic sense, 
for example, for Pakistan to pursue a 
nuclear weapons program in the 1970s, 
just as it makes little economic sense for 
Iran to do so today. Clearly, both 
Pakistan and Iran made major policy 
decisions based on political-military 
priorities rather than economic 
calculations. 
As for the surviving monarchies in the 
Middle East, they too will likely be less 
accommodating to American military 
forces than they have been in the past. To 
be sure, much of the Arab support for 
past American military operations -- like 
both Iraq wars -- was hidden from the 
public eye. Arab states often loudly and 
publicly denounced "unilateral 
American" military action in the region at 
the same time as they supported it in 
backroom dealings, quietly authorizing 
facilities support and air, land, and sea 
access. 
But if Arab Gulf states were quietly 
supportive in the past, their opposition to 
American military force is likely to grow 
in the future. They read the aftermath of 
the Arab uprisings much differently than 
did American and European 
policymakers. The Gulf monarchies were 
shocked that the United States 
"abandoned" Egyptian President Hosni 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029804 
Mubarak in his time of need in early 
2011. Their leaders expected the United 
States to push for Mubarak and the 
Egyptian military to crack down on 
public protests in Cairo. After all, 
American policymakers during the Carter 
administration had at least given this 
policy option consideration during the 
Iranian revolution in 1979. 
Already, several Gulf states have begun 
to translate their displeasure into policy 
independence from Washington. In 2011, 
for example, a coalition of Gulf states led 
by Saudi Arabia intervened in Bahrain to 
quell domestic unrest in the island 
country. They did so under the banner of 
the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), 
which for years had been a feckless 
military force. Largely unnoticed in 
Western commentary was that the GCC, 
for the first time in its history, mounted a 
relatively effective military intervention. 
Bahrain today is for all intents and 
purposes a province of Saudi Arabia, 
even if it is not polite to say so in 
diplomatic circles. Since the Iranian 
revolution, Bahrain -- like the United 
Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Oman, and Qatar 
-- has pursued close ties with the United 
States, in significant measure to 
counterbalance Iran and Saudi Arabia. 
With Washington at their back, they were 
able to stake out security policies that 
were at least nominally independent from 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029805 
Saudi Arabia. When Saudi Arabia wanted 
American forces removed from the 
kingdom, for example, Qatar was eager 
to compensate by hosting a more robust 
American command presence in the 
region. 
The Arab uprisings and subsequent GCC 
intervention in Bahrain have turned the 
tables, making Saudi security backing a 
necessity for the smaller Gulf 
monarchies. From their perspective, 
American forces are clearly more capable 
than Saudi forces, but given the 
alignment of their interests, Riyadh is a 
more reliable security partner. Gulf 
leaders and military commanders in the 
coming decade will be focused on how to 
avoid following in Mubarak's footsteps. 
Part of minimizing that risk will involve 
decreasing security dependency on the 
United States. Gulf leaders have to worry 
that if push comes to shove, the 
Americans will throw them under a bus 
just like they did to Mubarak. 
* * * 
If the political dynamics in the Middle 
East and South Asia do not favor further 
American military intervention in the 
future, neither do the emerging military 
trends. The proliferation of supersonic 
cruise missiles and mines in the region 
will make for nasty forced entries into 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029806 
narrow maritime confines like the Suez 
Canal, the Red Sea, and the Persian Gulf 
But the likely proliferation of nuclear 
weapons -- and ballistic missile delivery 
systems -- will pose even more 
formidable challenges to conventional 
military surges in the region. In the 
future, the United States will not be able 
to take for granted unchallenged surges 
of naval, air, and ground forces into 
regional theaters via logistics hubs. These 
hubs -- like the American naval presence 
in Bahrain -- are large, readily 
identifiable, and will be increasingly 
vulnerable to future targeting by nuclear 
weaponry. 
Iran's nuclear weapons, assuming it gets 
them, will pose a direct threat to 
American military surge capabilities. 
Although American policymakers and 
military commanders might feel 
confident that they could surge forces 
into the Gulf despite Iranian nuclear 
threats because of the American nuclear 
deterrent, Gulf security partners might be 
more nervous and less willing to 
cooperate. As a result, they might not 
grant access to U.S. air, naval, and 
ground forces out of fear of angering 
Iran. 
American observers who doubt that Gulf 
states would make such calculations 
should recall how Kuwait responded in 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029807 
the lead-up to Iraq's invasion in 1990. 
When faced with a build-up of Iraqi 
forces along its border, Kuwait decided 
not to mobilize its military out of fear 
that the move would provoke Saddam 
Hussein. The incentives for Gulf states to 
make similar strategic calculations in the 
future will be greater when Iran has an 
inventory of nuclear weapons to match its 
growing ballistic missile capabilities. 
The Gulf states, moreover, will likely 
reason that the U.S. capability to threaten 
or use force against a nuclear Iran will be 
significantly diminished. Even without 
nuclear weapons, Gulf states have seen, 
in their view, a long history of American 
reluctance to threaten or use force against 
Iran. For example, the United States took 
no direct military action against Iran after 
it aided and abetted Hezbollah bombings 
against Americans in Lebanon in the 
1980s, after Iran supported the bombing 
of Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia in 
1996, or even after Iran supported the 
deadly campaign of improvised explosive 
devices (IEDs) against U.S. troops in 
Iraq. Gulf states will no doubt judge that 
if the United States was unable and 
unwilling to attack Tehran under these 
circumstances, then it is certainly not 
going to attack Iran in the future, when it 
will be able to retaliate with nuclear 
weapons. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029808 
American policymakers may counter that 
Iran would never be foolish enough to 
threaten or use nuclear weapons against 
the United States, given its robust nuclear 
deterrence posture. But the threat or use 
of nuclear weapons might not look so 
foolish from Iran's perspective. One of 
the great strategic lessons drawn from the 
long history of conflict in the Middle East 
is this: Do not go to war without nuclear 
weapons, as Saddam Hussein did when 
he invaded Kuwait. The corollary is: Do 
not allow the United States to 
methodically build-up forces in the Gulf 
prior to invading, as Saddam did both in 
the run-up to the 1991 re-conquest of 
Kuwait and in 2003, before the drive to 
topple the regime in Baghdad. 
Drawing upon these lessons, Iran will 
likely do everything in its power to deny 
the United States the ability to surge 
conventional forces into the region -- and 
that might include threatening to target 
U.S. forces with nuclear weapons. Iran 
might accept the risk that preemptive use 
of nuclear weapons could bring on 
American nuclear retaliation, because 
failure to do so would mean certain 
destruction for the regime. The United 
States would be able to build-up 
conventional forces in the region and oust 
Iran's leaders just as it did in Baghdad. 
This line of strategic reasoning runs 
counter to conventional wisdom in the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029809 
West, but we actually know little or 
nothing about what Iranian decision-
makers think about nuclear weapons or 
deterrence theory. Since the Iranian 
revolution in 1979, opportunities for the 
exchange of professional views between 
Western and Iranian scholars, 
policymakers, and military leaders on 
these critically important issues have 
been extremely limited. Therefore, it's not 
unreasonable to assume that the Iranians, 
like American policymakers in the early 
stages of developing their nuclear triad 
doctrine, will think of nuclear weapons as 
merely "big artillery." Unfortunately, the 
United States and its security partners 
lack formal and informal exchanges with 
the Iranians akin to the Cold War 
discussions and arms control negotiations 
between the Americans and Soviets, 
which allowed both parties to develop 
mutual understandings of the other's 
perception of nuclear weapons. These 
understandings were essential for crisis 
management in the Cold War strategic 
relationship after the Cuban missile 
crisis. 
Meanwhile, the Gulf states, led by Saudi 
Arabia, are likely to look for their own 
nuclear deterrents. Much like France 
wanted its own nuclear force de frappe 
during the Cold War, the Gulf states will 
want their own nuclear weapons to deter 
Iran. Saudi Arabia and the smaller Gulf 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029810 
states will worry that the United States 
would be deterred from coming to their 
defense in future regional crises by Iran's 
nuclear weapons. 
Saudi Arabia and other Arab states are 
likely to see nuclear weapons as a quick 
fix for all of their security woes. 
Although they have been on a shopping 
spree in the past decade, buying 
expensive and sophisticated Western 
military technology, they have had a 
tough time absorbing the new technology 
and fully utilizing and integrating 
weapons systems. To be sure, in a rough  
net assessment, Saudi Arabia and its 
allies in the Gulf have significantly 
greater conventional capabilities than 
Iran. But if Iran goes nuclear, they will 
want to follow suit. 
* * * 
Americans may be weary of conflict in 
the Middle East and South Asia, but 
strategic prudence demands that we 
contemplate future military interventions 
in the Central Command theater. A scan 
of the horizon reveals that both political 
and military trends in the region pose 
formidable obstacles to conventional 
force surges into the region. 
But there is another wrinkle in this story 
that U.S. policymakers must contend with 
as they plan for the future. As Gulf 
monarchies seek to reduce their 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029811 
dependence on American military power, 
they will increasingly look to China for 
security assurances. China does not have 
a political agenda devoted to promoting 
democratization, and it maintains 
political and diplomatic ties with both 
Arab states and Iran. China's military 
activity in the region is modest but 
increasing, as evidenced by its recent 
peacekeeping dispatches to the region 
and naval port visits in the Gulf Beijing 
is likely to send more naval forces to the 
Gulf to increase its presence there and 
enhance its ability to protect the sea lanes 
which bring oil to China's thirsty 
economy. China is keenly aware that the 
United States has naval supremacy in the 
Gulf, but will be working to erode that 
strategic edge in the future. 
Faced with these realities, there is a need 
for new thinking and innovative 
conceptualizations of surges into 
Centcom's area of responsibility. Theater 
campaign planners will have to think 
about contingencies in which the United 
States cannot slowly and methodically 
build up forces in the region and then 
kick off campaigns after most troops, 
arms, and equipment are in place. Future 
U.S. force build-ups in the region will be 
far too vulnerable to preemptive nuclear 
strikes. As a result, planners will have to 
devise campaign plans in which the 
insertion of U.S. military forces begins 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029812 
with an immediate rolling and flowing 
start. The United States will have to work 
from smaller troop footprints and be 
prepared to start fighting even as follow-
on-forces are on the way. Ideally, these 
forces would flow from multiple staging 
positions to reduce vulnerability to 
nuclear attack. The politics of the region, 
however, will work against securing a 
multitude of staging areas from which to 
deploy. 
The region under the purview of 
Centcom has always been riddled with 
political violence that has posed 
formidable challenges to military 
operations. But in plotting a course over 
the horizon, the political and military 
obstacles for American military surges 
into the region are poised to grow even 
larger. As a result, theater contingency 
planners will have fewer good options for 
projecting American military power into 
the region -- and they'll have to do more 
with the bad and the ugly. 
Richard L. Russell is Professor of 
National Security Affairs at the Near East 
and South Asia Center for Strategic 
Studies. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029813 
Article 6. 
The Diplomat 
Getting to the Endgame  
With Iran  
Robert Dreyfuss 
February 6, 2013 -- Why did it take so 
long to secure a date for talks between 
Iran and the P5+1? 
After all, in the weeks before the 
presidential election in November, it was 
reported that the United States and Iran 
had already tactically agreed to convene 
private, one-on-one talks. And since then 
the United States, the European powers, 
Russia, and China, all sought to arrange 
another round of negotiations, first in 
December and then in January. It now 
appears that Iran, which is about to enter 
its presidential election season, has 
finally agreed to what will be the first 
round of negotiations with the P5+1 since 
the last round in Moscow seven months 
ago. On Tuesday, Tehran announced that 
it will join talks on February 26 in 
Kazakhstan. 
The negotiations will be a serious test for 
the Obama administration and for John 
Kerry, the new secretary of state. 
Previous rounds have all faltered because 
neither side was willing to make 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029814 
concessions to the other, and so far there 
is little sign that the United States and the 
P5+1 have improved their offer to Iran 
very much. As the talks were announced, 
the Washington Post reported: "The P5+1 
powers have made only mild revisions to 
a proposal that Iran flatly rejected last 
June." Until now, the United States has 
been unwilling to acknowledge Iran's 
right to enrich uranium on its own soil 
and to suggest that some economic 
sanctions might be lifted as part of a deal, 
and Iran has refused to agree even to a 
limited deal called "stop, ship, and shut" 
— involving the suspension of its 
enrichment to 20 percent purity, shipping 
its existing stockpiles of 20% uranium to 
a third country for processing, and 
shutting down its underground facility at 
Fordo, near Qom — without an agreement 
to lift sanctions. 
After the reelection of Barack Obama in 
November, there were great hopes that 
the president would have greater political 
freedom of offer concessions to Iran. Yet, 
publicly at least, the White House isn't 
signaling that it is ready to make a more 
generous offer to Iran, and in fact Obama 
in January signed into law yet another 
round of draconian economic sanctions. 
Perhaps as a result, Iran allegedly 
dragged its feet on setting a date for talks. 
Despite prodding from the P5+1 — 
including urgent efforts by Russia — in 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029815 
January Iran reportedly went silent about  
talks. Russia, increasingly frustrated by 
the inability of Tehran and the West to 
negotiate seriously, vented its frustration. 
"Some of our partners in the six powers 
and the Iranian side cannot come to an 
agreement about where to meet," Russian 
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told a  
news conference. "We are ready to meet 
at any location as soon as possible. We 
believe the essence of our talks is far 
more important (than the site), and we 
hope that common sense will prevail and 
we will stop behaving like little 
children." 
According to analysts in Washington, 
reinforced by comments from Iran itself, 
a big reason for Tehran's recalcitrance is 
that Iran wants to prove to the United 
States that its vaunted sanctions regime 
will not force Iran to make unilateral 
concessions at the bargaining table. In 
addition, Iran is concerned that it won't 
get much in return in talks with the West, 
and that it will be asked to make 
unilateral concessions on uranium 
enrichment without getting sanctions 
relief in return. Combined with Iranian  
internal divisions, as its own presidential  
election season gets underway, that could 
mean that for the next six months or so 
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei simply won't be 
ready to talk seriously, despite scheduling 
the Kazakhstan round. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029816 
Others suspect that Iran is waiting to see 
how President Obama's new national 
security team — with Kerry as secretary of 
state, Chuck Hagel as secretary of 
defense, and John Brennan at the Central 
Intelligence Agency — will shape 
Obama's stance at any talks. 
In Washington, some would argue there's 
a growing consensus, at the level of think 
tanks, Iran experts, and other analysts, 
that a preliminary, first-round deal, 
including "shop, ship, and shut," might 
work, if in response the P5+1 could lift 
some of the economic sanctions on Iran 
and agree to limited Iranian enrichment. 
Perhaps the best-case scenario is the 
possibility that there are ongoing, secret 
and back-channel talks between 
Washington and Tehran. Nothing along 
those lines has leaked and there is no 
indication of this, yet. But in advance of 
the first round of Iran-P5+1 talks in 
Vienna in 2009, the United States and 
Iran did indeed engage in quiet, behind-
the-scenes diplomacy. 
In fact, of course, any sanctions relief for 
Iran will occur slowly and step-by-step, 
not all at once, in parallel with steps 
taken by Iran and openness to more 
intrusive inspections and oversight by the 
IAEA. 
But it's certainly not helpful that in early 
January yet another round of unilateral 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029817 
sanctions was passed by Congress and 
signed into law by President Obama. The 
complex set of new measures targets key 
industrial sectors, including shipping and 
imports of products such as aluminum, 
steel and coal, and seeks to block Iran 
from using barter commodities such as 
oil and gold to pay for imports. The 
Washington Post paraphrased U.S. 
officials as saying that, "the new policies 
are closer to a true trade embargo, 
designed to systematically attack and 
undercut Iran's major financial pillars 
and threaten the country with economic 
collapse." Obama signed the National 
Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that 
contained the sanctions provisions 
despite having hinted earlier that he 
might veto the NDAA over a host of 
measures contained in the bill. 
If the Obama administration believes that 
ever-tougher sanctions will cause Iran to 
cave in at the talks, it's likely that they 
are badly misreading Iranian politics. 
For many observers, however, and for 
Iran, too, the nomination of Hagel for 
secretary of defense may be a sign that 
the White House is beginning to realize 
that sanctions, and threats of military 
action, won't force Iran's hand. 
As has been widely reported, hawks, 
neoconservatives, and members of the 
pro-Israel lobby in Washington have 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029818 
slammed Hagel for his past comments 
and positions on Iran. In conjunction with 
Israel-friendly members of Congress, 
they've warned Obama to rein Hagel in 
so as not to send a dovish signal to 
Tehran. Robert Satloff, executive 
direction of the Washington Institute for 
Near East Policy (WINEP), a pro-Israel 
think tank, warned bluntly that the White 
House should act quickly to make sure 
that Hagel backs away from his previous 
views on Iran and at least toes the 
administration's tougher line. "If the 
White House does not take steps soon to 
correct that impression, the chances for a 
negotiated resolution of the Iran nuclear 
crisis will fall nearly to zero and the 
likelihood of Israeli military action will 
rise dramatically," he wrote. 
Indeed, within days of his nomination as 
secretary of defense, Hagel was already 
backing away from his earlier views, 
meeting with senior Pentagon officials 
and influential senators who'll vote on 
his confirmation to clarify his views on 
Iran, asserting that he supports broad 
international sanctions against Iran and 
that he believes that the military option 
ought to be "on the table." Several 
Democratic senators who met with Hagel 
announced with satisfaction that the 
former senator from Nebraska had 
sufficiently backtracked or "clarified" his 
views on Iran. Consequently, they 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029819 
announced that he had earned their 
support — and their vote. 
Then, during his confirmation hearings 
on January 31, Hagel — under hostile 
questioning from several Republican 
senators — backed away from earlier-held 
positions on Iran, including the role of 
sanctions. And, though he previously 
been a sharp critic of a military attack on 
Iran, in his opening statement Hagel said: 
"I am fully committed to the President's 
goal of preventing Iran from obtaining a 
nuclear weapon, and—as I've said in the 
past—all options must be on the table to 
achieve that goal. My policy is one of 
prevention, and not one of containment—
and the President has made clear that is 
the policy of our government. As 
Secretary of Defense, I will make sure 
the Department is prepared for any 
contingency." 
Satloff's views were echoed by another 
tough-talking official at WINEP, former 
Ambassador Dennis Ross, a pro-Israel 
hawk who served as Obama's top adviser 
on Iran during much of the president's 
first term. "I think 2013 is going to be 
decisive," Ross told the Los Angeles  
Times, expressing concern about Hagel's 
previous comments. "Time really is 
running out. For diplomacy to have a 
chance of success, the Iranians need to 
understand that if diplomacy fails, force 
is going to be the result. We still have a 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029820 
challenge to convince the Iranians that 
we're quite serious about the use of 
force," he said. "In the first term, the 
administration didn't always speak with 
one voice on this issue. So what Hagel 
says can make a difference." 
Despite his poorly receieved performance  
at his confirmation hearings, it's widely 
believed in Washington that Hagel will 
be confirmed as secretary of defense and 
that his private advice to Obama will 
more closely hew to his long-held beliefs 
about the futility of sanctions and the 
grave downside to a military strike. Partly 
for that reason, it remains very unlikely 
that the Obama administration will resort 
to force to resolve the dispute with Iran. 
In fact, in remarks that Iranian officials 
cited as promising, Vice President Joe 
Biden expressed the administration's 
willingness to hold bilateral talks with the 
Iranians. In response to a question at the 
Munich Security Conference Biden said, 
"We have made it clear at the outset 
that...we would be prepared to meet 
bilaterally with the Iranian leadership" 
when Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah 
Ali Khamenei is serious about 
negotiations. Iran's Foreign Minister, Ali 
Akbar Salehi responded favorably and 
said, "I am optimistic, I feel this new 
administration is really seeking this time 
to at least divert from its previous 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029821 
traditional approach vis-a-vis my 
country." 
But if Washington remains committed to 
ever-tougher sanctions — and without 
promising Iran that sanctions will be 
lifted as part of a deal — then negotiations 
are unlikely to succeed. Vali Nasr, 
another former Obama administration 
official with expertise on Iran, suggested 
recently that there's not much more the 
world can do to sanction Iran, and that 
such penalties could drive Tehran to take 
radical action. The regime of sanctions 
against Iran over its nuclear activity 
"really has reached its end," Nasr, dean of 
the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced 
International Studies at Johns Hopkins 
University, said during the World 
Economic Forum in Davos. And he 
warned that unless there is a diplomatic 
breakthrough — or, alternatively, an 
attack on Iran — "you really are looking 
at a scenario where Iran is going to rush 
very quickly towards nuclear power, 
because they also think, like North 
Korea, that (then) you have much more 
leverage to get rid of these sanctions." 
Robert Dreyfuss is an independent, 
investigative journalist in the 
Washington, D. C, area, who writes 
frequently for The Nation, Rolling Stone, 
and other publications. His blog, The 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029822 
Dreyfuss Report, appears at 
TheNation.com. He is the author of 
'Devil's Game: How the United States 
Helped Unleash Fundamentalist Islam'. 
Article 7. 
The Wall Street Journal 
A New U.S. International 
Economic Strategy  
Robert B. Zoellick 
February 5, 2013 -- Five years into the 
global economic storm, America's 
traditional allies, theEuropean Union and 
Japan, are struggling. Developing 
economies are reshaping the global 
dynamic but also face big challenges. The 
United States is the one country that 
could lead the modernization of the 
international system so as to supply 
security, economic opportunity, and 
prospects for liberty. America's own 
strategy for economic revival cannot be 
limited to the nation's borders. And its 
future foreign policy—its projection of 
power and principle—must be grounded 
in the emerging economic order. 
President Obama has said he admires 
Ronald Reagan's transformative thinking. 
If so, he should ask for an assessment of 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029823 
Reagan's second-term innovations on 
currency and monetary affairs, trade, debt 
and development. Reagan advanced a 
new international system to match the 
revival of capitalism after the oil shocks 
and stagflation of the 1970s. America's 
success in the 1980s contributed both to 
the end of the Cold War, by persuading 
the Soviet Union it could not keep up, 
and to two decades of exceptional global 
growth. 
The new U.S. international economic 
strategy should have five parts. First, this 
country should strengthen its continental 
base by building on the North American 
Free Trade Agreement with Canada and 
Mexico. Together, the three partners 
could boost energy security, improve 
productivity, and give North Americans 
an edge in manufacturing and other 
industries that are already experiencing 
rising wages in East Asia. A politically 
acceptable immigration policy, and a 
push for educational innovation using 
new technologies and competition, could 
lead to a more prosperous, populous, 
integrated and democratic future for the 
hemisphere. 
Second, the extraordinary monetary 
policies of late, led by the Federal 
Reserve's continued near-zero interest-
rate policy, are taking us into uncharted 
territory. Central banks have tried most 
every tool to stimulate growth; if Japan is 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029824 
any warning, the next tactic is 
competitive devaluation, which risks a 
new protectionism. "Currency 
manipulation" could become a danger 
that reaches far beyond the debate about 
Chinese policies. The world economy 
will need at some point to withdraw the 
drug of cheap money and negative real 
interest rates. The U.S. should anticipate 
these dangers. 
The International Monetary Fund also 
could help set standards about exchange-
rate policies and serve as a referee that 
blows a whistle, even if it cannot 
penalize. The IMF and the World Trade 
Organization should anticipate this risk 
and give effect to the existing WTO 
agreement that economies must "avoid 
manipulating exchange rates . . . to gain 
an unfair competitive advantage." 
Third, the U.S. needs to break the logjam 
on opening markets. As the leading world 
economy, America should initially try to 
strengthen and increase international 
trade through the WTO. As my 
colleagues at the Peterson Institute have 
pointed out, there are gains from the 
stymied Doha Round of trade 
negotiations that should be harvested 
now: ending agricultural export 
subsidies; limiting food export controls; 
eliminating tariffs and quotas for almost 
all exports of the poorest countries; 
facilitating customs and clearance 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029825 
procedures; and improving the 
transparency and speed of the system for 
settling disputes. 
Next, the U.S. needs to keep the WTO 
current with a vastly changed world 
economy. The past WTO agreements are 
valuable for all 158 WTO members. But 
some economies want to go further by 
reducing barriers in important sectors 
such as the services trade, environmental 
goods and services, government 
procurement, and the digital economy. 
The services trade, for example, is vital 
for boosting innovation, productivity and 
jobs in developing and developed 
countries alike—but regulatory, 
licensing, zoning and other barriers to 
services are often equivalent to a 30% 
tariff or higher. Because liberalization in 
the WTO has been stuck, countries have 
turned increasingly to bilateral and 
multilateral free-trade agreements, some 
of which have addressed these newer 
topics. The U.S. should foster the WTO 
principle of world-wide liberalization by 
adopting standards in various industries 
and sectors that would be open to all 
economies that reciprocate. The WTO 
also needs new rules for fair trading by 
state-owned enterprises. 
Yet the U.S. also should use free-trade 
agreements to open markets. Trade 
competition advances structural reforms 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029826 
and growth without bigger government 
and more spending. The Obama 
administration has talked about trans-
Pacific and trans-Atlantic accords. Yet it 
has failed to close even one new free-
trade agreement. Ron Kirk, the 
president's trade representative, said in 
2009 that the administration did not have 
"deal fever." In fact, it has been "deal 
delinquent." 
Fourth, gender equality is not only fair 
and right—it is smart economics. No 
economy can reach its potential if it 
overlooks the talents of half its people. 
The U.S. should lead in identifying 
structural barriers in countries that hold 
back girls' and women's health, 
education, credit, jobs and 
entrepreneurship. 
Finally, the U.S. needs to match growth 
priorities of developing economies. 
President Obama should expand the 
global food-security initiative he 
announced in 2009 to boost agricultural 
productivity and production across the 
value chain, including through the private 
sector, in sub-Saharan Africa and other 
poor regions. Infrastructure investment 
could increase global demand today 
while building productivity for tomorrow. 
The U.S. can lead a push with middle-
income economies to develop public-
private infrastructure models that move 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029827 
from "one-offs" to a deal flow. The zero 
returns for savers from U.S. monetary 
policy can make infrastructure 
investments attractive. 
In addition to offering financing, the 
private sector can improve the design, 
operation and maintenance of 
infrastructure. As the state of Indiana has 
shown, the federal government could 
profitably use public-private partnerships 
for its infrastructure, too. 
The administration has talked about some 
of these topics. But it is oddly passive, as 
if it were hesitant to lead. State 
Department speeches are not enough. To 
carve out an international economic 
strategy, the new secretary of the 
Treasury needs to choreograph policies 
across all U.S. departments and with 
multilateral economic institutions. The 
U.S. had better wake up: International 
economic strategy is the new foreign 
policy. 
Mr. Zoellick has served as president of 
the World Bank Group, U.S. trade 
representative and deputy secretary of 
state. He is now a fellow at the Belfer 
Center at Harvard and the Peterson 
Institute for International Economics. 
Click here to Reply or Forward 
Why this ad?Ads — 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029828 
Teach English Worldwide  
Become an English Teacher Overseas Earn Your TESOL 
Online at USC. 
rossieronline.usc.edu 
22.3 GB (10%) of 210.1 GBManage  
©2013 Google - Terms & Privacy 
Last account activity: 0 minutes ago 
Details 
Teach English Worldwide 
*********************************************************** 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
Jeffrey Epstein 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029829 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029830 
