From: Lisa New 
Sent: 9/24/2014 12:25:39 AM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: Highlight 
Importance: High 
Jeffrey, if you are conceding any bit of the other things , with all due respect, that's exciting, as its new for me 
to be right about anything in the area of budgets. 
As it happens,and as of today, there is huge dissatisfaction in public television world with the lower budget 
Clinton footage versus the Herbie Hancock footage. David g was there for Herbie and not for Clinton. I can see 
the difference .the pilot was made for 100, 000, with savings on the Clinton but it does show 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Sep 23, 2014, at 7:57 PM, "jeffrey E." <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
clinton woody kagan, do not add one penny to budget 
On Tue, Sep 23, 2014 at 6:17 PM, Lisa New < 1> wrote: 
That was fun- definitely the highlight of a day that was not without other interesting moments 
Don't know which was better-- the wholly unexpected surprise reminder (by a prime minister) of my boyfriend 
from 1976( who was in high school, who lived with his doting parents), or, getting creamed on my producer's 
budget but then offered the opportunity to profess poetry for production funds . There may be someone as good 
in New York, but i'll never tell you and you really have a heck of a seminar table there . When do we do 
Whitman's "Song of Myself" 1-15 Who else is reading with us? I'm ready. 
A few other follow ups: 
David and Brigid point out that reality tv doesn't cost anything because it is, as it sounds, very low budget . No 
writing , no special expertise or knowledge or research , no archival footage , no copyright clearance , no 
actors, no travel beyond the one location, certainly no clinton or woody allen or justice elena kagan or david 
brooks or Lena Dunham or even Professor New. That said , I think If were hiring the crew id do it for less --
probably 1, 250,000 all in. But I haven't won 10 Emmys and David has . That has value too. As does Wgbh. 
But I'll be more prepared for the next conversation and want to be much more prepared for templeton, so thank 
you. 
I really liked Michael. I would like to send him some stuff, but in googling him I noticed that we have the 
same birthday! May I have his email? 
You are in! Yeay! Lets see what this may mean? I'll improve my numbers and you'll improve your deep 
reading ? 
Sent from my iPhone 
please note 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023429 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023430 
