From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
How To Academy 
6/27/2019 8:29:59 AM 
jeeyacation@gmail.com 
LIVE! Melinda Gates on How Empowering Women Changes the World 
LIVE! Melinda Gates on How Empowering Women Changes the World 
View this email in your browser 
17th July 2019 
Melinda Gates 
How Empowering Women Changes the World 
Buy Tickets 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026999 
WHEN: 
Wed, 17th Jul 2019 
6:45pm - 8:00pm 
WHERE: 
Emmanuel Centre 
9-23 Marsham Street 
In her book, The Moment of Lift: How Empowering Women Changes the World, Melinda Gates 
makes a bold claim: when we lift up women, we lift up humanity. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 027000 
Buy Tickets 
In this live In Conversation event, Melinda will introduce us to the women she's met during 
years of travel, humanitarian work and extensive research. She will share stories from her new 
book The Moment of Lift: How Empowering Women Changes the World: stories that are 
brutally honest, gut-wrenching, inspiring and triumphant. They show us how, time and time 
again, empowered women rise up and bring their families and communities with them. 
Melinda will also share her own personal journey to achieving equality in her marriage, finding 
her voice and becoming an advocate for women and girls. She will explain how the women she 
has met have called her to action. And at this critical moment, she will call us to action too — 
urging us to drive progress in our homes, workplaces and communities. 
This conversation will fill your heart with hope and the determination to empower yourself and 
others. It will also ignite your sense of urgency, leaving you convinced that equality can't wait. 
WHAT THEY SAY 
in her book, Melinda tells the stories of the inspiring people she's met 
hrough her work all over the world, digs into the data, and powerfully 
illustrates issues that need our attention — from child marriage to gender 
.nequity in the workplace.' — President Barack Obama 
Melinda Gates has spent many years working with women around the 
world. This book is an urgent manifesto for an equal society where 
women are valued and recognized in all spheres of life. Most of all, it is a call for unity, inclusion 
and connection. We need this message more than ever.' — Malala Yousafzai 
The Moment of Lift is an urgent call to courage. It changed how I think about myself, my family, 
my work, and what's possible in the world. Melinda weaves together vulnerable, brave 
storytelling and compelling data to make this one of those rare books that you carry in your 
heart and mind long after the last page.' — Brene Brown, Ph.D., author of New York Times #1 
bestseller Dare to Lead 
This book is a beautiful and concise mission statement on what we need to do to move society 
forward- continue to empower women. At every level and in all places women are truly the 
bedrock supporting their communities.' — Trevor Noah 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 027001 
'Melinda Gates's book is a lesson in listening. A powerful, poignant, and ultimately humble call 
to arms.' — Tara Westover, author of Educated 
Melinda French Gates is a philanthropist, businesswoman, 
and global advocate for women and girls. 
As the co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, 
Melinda sets the direction and priorities of the world's 
largest philanthropy. She is also the founder of Pivotal  
Ventures, an investment and incubation company working 
to drive social progress for women and families in the 
United States. Melinda's first book, The Moment of Lift, was 
published in the UK April 2019 by Bluebird, part of Pan 
Macmillan. 
Buy Tickets on Eventbrite 
Share this Email with your Friends 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 027002 
Share 
Tweet 
Forward 
Since 2013 the How To: Academy has offered a home for people who think big. Now you can 
go deeper into the world of ideas by becoming a Member. 
Copyright © 2019 How To Academy, All rights reserved. 
You are receiving this email because you opted in our website howtoacademy.com and 
indicated you wished to receive news about courses and offers. 
Our mailing address is: 
How To Academy 
11 Aldridge Road Villas 
London, England W11 1BL 
United Kingdom 
www.howtoacademy.com  
how to: unsubscribe I update subscription preferences 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 027003 
