From: jeffrey E. <jeeyacation@gmail.com> 
Sent: Friday, January 16, 2015 9:37 AM 
To: Mortimer Zuckerman 
Subject: thoughts? 
Out of respect and love for my former girlfrend I have tried to keep her out of my mess. she was never 
questioned, or subpeonaed. her name never surfaced. Marie never contacted her. I though it right as a friend to 
protect her name. however during the entire time she was my serious girlfriend. She traveled 
with me almost everywhere, each house, she is on the plane many many times. she knew and remembers 
MI= She never saw anything that She can confirm 1. I was never alone at the 
house. staff, friends etc. , no girl ever complained , not once. 2. jane doe 1 and 2 , were local strippers, that 
would call all the time asking if they could do massages. . . they left message after message. 3. We had a 
serious love relationship, I had promised her not to involve her in my story as it was so sordid. . she was 22 - 
24 at the time. . 4 she has photos after photos showing we were together. . 5 she knows clinton was never on 
the island. 6 she knows no sex with steven hawking, she knows no sex with ehud as he was also never on the 
island. 6 she is 38 years old now and presentable. . 7 She woudl acknowledge that these girls asked to bring 
their friends . many of their best friends sat in the kitchen while they gave massages outside on the terrace. ( 
no sex J. . they certainly looked over age. nevr heard anyone say otherwise. , Jeffrey never asked for 
underage, that is crazy, . . 8. Min answered the phones. served coffee. . there were many massage 
people , men women, aged up to 60. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation(&,gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
1 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022834 
