From: paul krassner 
Sent: 7/21/2017 4:13:33 AM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: hey 
Importance: High 
J. or Jeff or Jeffrey, 
Hope things are going well for you. 
I finally finished trimming down my collection from 700 pages to 400, "60 Years of Investigative Satire: The 
Best of PK." The piece below is the last one in the book. You've previously seen the first half 
Enjoy, 
Paul or Zen Bastard or Rumpleforeskin 
Alternative Facts 
Between the choice of a one-man-one-vote (Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia) and fake news of Weapons 
of Mass Destruction, invasion of Iraq, and horror of ISIS, George Bush was elected president in the year 2000. It 
was due to the electoral college (a rigged system which originally intended to prevent slaves from voting and 
evolved to gerrymandering), even though Bush's opponent, Al Gore, won the national popular vote. 
Hillary Clinton was elected senator that year, and she announced that the first thing she would do was to get rid 
of the electoral college. A few years later, as a columnist for the New York Press, I sent her a letter asking about 
the status of that promise. She didn't reply. 
On November 8, 2016, a crooked businessman, liar extraordinaire, bragging pussy-grabber, make-America-
white-again, anti-choice, anti-Semite, fake Christian, climate-change hoaxer, twitter addict, homophobic, 
apprentice politician, friendly fascist, and Vladimir Putin's "useful idiot," namely Donald Trump, who was 
elected as an insanely narcissistic dictator based on the electoral college, whereas his opponent, Hillary Clinton, 
won the national popular vote by "more than three million" individuals. 
Irony lives. 
But an incredibly cruel monster inadvertently awakened a sleeping population to counteract the essence of evil 
with love, laughs, and law, fueled by the aid of true news. Incidentally, Putin had 88 journalists murdered. No 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030871 
wonder Trump told him, "It's an honor to be with you." Now Putin wanted new Obama's sanctions on Russia to 
be reprieved. 
National Security Adviser Michael Flynn had discussed it with the Russian ambassador a month before Trump 
took office. Although General Flynn joined his campaign and shared criminal secrets, he denied them to the FBI. 
It was a felony offense. The Justice Department warned Trump that Flynn had misled Mike Pence, and that Flynt 
could be vulnerable to blackmail. Trump asked Flynn to resign, and yet he offered his job back when he got out 
of prison. Why? Because Flynt was the scapegoat, taking the fall for the president and vice-president. He preferred 
a trial with immunity since they knew. Pence said Flynt lied and that itself was a lie. 
If Trump and Pence were both to be kicked out of the White House, the next in line would be the Speaker of the 
House, Paul Ryan. Steve Bannon has described him as "a limp-dick motherfucker who was born in a petri dish at 
the Heritage Foundation." It takes one to know one. Indeed, Bannon said he wanted to destroy Ryan. 
Hallelujah! 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030872 
