From: Bob Crowe 
Sent: 3/11/2016 12:24:18 PM 
To: jeevacation@gmail.com 
Subject: FW: RE : RE: Revised letter. Arbitrary detention of Mr. Wade 
Attachments: image001.gif 
Importance: High 
Robert B. Crowe Partner I Nelson Mullins 
One Post Office Square, 30th Fl., Boston, MA 02109 
101 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20001 
T: 
From: abuulabass [mailto:________________________________ 
Sent: Wednesday, March 02, 2016 12:31 PM 
To: Vinoda Basnayake; elisabeth feliho 
Cc: Bob Crowe; Mohamed Seydou Diagne; El Hadji Amadou Sall 
Subject: RE : RE: Revised letter. Arbitrary detention of Mr. Wade 
Congratulations Vinoda ! The French version of the paper was published today in the Senegalese major 
newspapers. You can see it also in Seneweb.com. 
Many thanks for the good work with my best regards. 
Tidiane 
Envoy& depuis mon appareil Samsung 
--------Message d'origine-------- 
De : Vinoda Basnayake < 
Date: 02/03/2016 16:20 (GMT+00:00) 
A: elisabeth feliho M11.1111> 
Cc: Bob Crowe <i>, Cheikh Tidiane Sy < 
Seydou Diagne <MNIIMIM>, El Hadji Amadou Sall < 
Objet: RE: Revised letter. Arbitrary detention of Mr. Wade 
>, Mohamed 
We have had some positive feedback from the article. Now the issue certainly has more visibility in Washington. Bob is 
in the process of setting up the meeting with Tom at the State Dept regarding the Human Rights Report for 2016. Will 
send more as we get more details. 
Vinoda 
Vinoda Basnayake 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026835 
Of Counsel and Chair of DC Government Relations 
Nelson Mullins Riley a Scarborough LLP 
101 Constitution Avenue, NW, Suite 900 
Washington, DC 20001 
Tel: 
Fax: 
www.nelsonmullins.com 
(View Bio) 
From: elisabeth feliho [I_______________________________ 
Sent: Monday, February 29, 2016 6:29 AM 
To: Vinoda Basnayake 
Cc: Bob Crowe; Cheikh Tidiane Sy; Mohamed Seydou Diagne; El Hadji Amadou Sall 
Subject: Re: Revised letter. Arbitrary detention of Mr. Wade 
Congratulations!!! Can we share this with the press here? 
Best regards. 
EF 
2016-02-26 13:04 GMT+00:00 Vinoda Basnayake < 
Great news, the piece was published in The Hill this morning-
http://thehill.com/blogs/pundits-blog/internationa1/270878-senegals-democratic-backslide 
We can share this w Congress and State. 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Feb 26, 2016, at 6:06 AM, elisabeth feliho < 
Excellent!!! 
> wrote: 
2016-02-24 20:13 GMT+00:00 Vinoda Basnayake 
We are working on getting the following article placed in the Hill or the Politico within the next week. As of now it looks 
like former Chairman of Armed Services, Congressman Ron Dellums, will be the author. Please keep highly 
confidential. Will keep you posted on if, when and where it gets published. Once it is published we can all circulate it 
highly. We believe that this article sets the tone for the advocacy we will be doing and having someone very prominent 
like Congressman Dellums will also be a great way to launch this campaign. 
Congressman Ronald Dellums is a thirteen term Member of the U.S. House of Representatives (D-CA) who 
served from 1971-1998. He also served as the 48th Mayor of Oakland from 2007-2011. Dellums served as the 
Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and the House Committee on the District of Columbia. He 
also served on the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Post Office and Civil Service Committee, the Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence and co-founded the Congressional Black Caucus. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026836 
Senegal's Democratic Backslide 
2015 was a banner year for democracy in Africa. Nigeria, the largest country on the continent, had a 
democratic election, and even more impressively, had its first ever peaceful transition of power when sitting 
President Goodluck Jonathan transferred power to Muhammadu Buhari. Former President Jonathan conceded 
and famously declared, "Nobody's ambition is worth the blood of any Nigerian." My last piece for The Hill 
was titled, 'Will Guinea's experiment in democracy succeed?" It is with great joy that I can report that it 
did! Guinea's first democratically elected President, Alpha Conde, won his reelection campaign in a peaceful 
election that was internationally monitored in which the Guinean electorate reaffirmed its commitment to a 
democracy. 
Despite these victories for democracy in a continent in which I dedicated a great deal of my life's work, I am 
deeply troubled by developments over the last few weeks. Earlier this week Uganda President Yoweri 
Museveni extended his thirty year rule and "won" his fifth consecutive election which international observers 
said was marred with intimidation and impropriety. Shortly after the election Museveni, who scrapped 
constitutional term limits a decade ago, had his political rival, Kizza Besigye arrested and detained for 
protesting the election results. Of course we have come to expect these actions from Museveni in 
Uganda. What I am even most troubled by is what is taking place in Senegal, which was once the pillar of 
democracy in Africa. 
When Abdoulaye Wade was democratically elected as President of Senegal in 2000, it was a huge step 
forward for democracy in Africa. President Wade adopted a new constitution and instituted term limits for the 
first time in Senegalese history. In 2012 President Wade was defeated in a democratic election by his Prime 
Minister Macky Sall. The United States and the larger international community praised Wade for his quick 
concession and praised peaceful transition of power. President Macky Sall affirmed his commitment to 
democracy announcing that he would shorten term limits from 7 to 5 years. President Obama visited Senegal in 
June of 2013 and praised President Sall for his commitment to democracy in shortening the presidential 
mandate and praised the country's rule of law. 
Unfortunately in the past few years much has changed and we are witnessing a backslide in what was once 
Africa's brightest democratic success story. When the opposition party, the Senegalese Democratic Party, 
designated former President Abdoulaye Wade' son, former Minister Karim Wade, as their candidate for the next 
presidential election; President Sall had Karim Wade arrested and detained. President Macky Sall then 
reestablished a special court by presidential decree that had been abolished by Senegalese law and not heard a 
case in thirty years. This newly established special court sentenced Mr. Wade to six years in prison. He remains 
in prison today, sentenced without appeal. In April 2015, the United Nations Working Group of Arbitrary 
Detention determined that Mr. Wade was arbitrarily arrested and that his detention was in violation of 
international law. Last month the UN Working Group reaffirmed its finding and called on President Sall's 
regime to release Karim Wade and comply with international law. Sall has ignored the UN Working Groups 
request. 
Last week the backslide continued even further as President Macky Sall reneged on his commitment to shorten 
term limits. Instead of holding elections next year, after five years per his commitment, he announced that he 
would serve until 2019. He claims that this decision was based on the opinion - just an opinion - of the 
Constitutional Council that he had himself sought. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026837 
In light of the trend toward democracy in Africa as exemplified by Nigeria and Guinea, it is very concerning 
that one of the United States' closest allies and Africa's strongest democracies appears to be retrogressing. The 
destabilization of democracy in Senegal could have significant consequences in the entire region. The United 
States must get in front of this negative trend before spreads across Africa and it is too late. The U.S. should 
call for President Sall to honor the request of the UN Working Group and release his political rival Mr. Wade 
and also keep his pledge of a 5 year presidential mandate. President Obama has said that Africa is more 
important than ever to security and prosperity in the U.S. We have worked very hard in implementing and 
prioritizing democracy and democratic succession in Africa. The Obama administration must not let our hard 
work be compromised in Senegal, we have worked too hard and come too far. 
<image001.gif> 
Vinoda Basnayake 
Of Counsel and Chair of DC Government Relations 
Nelson Mullins Riley a Scarborough LLP 
101 Constitution Avenue, NW, Suite 900 
Washington, DC 20001 
Tel: 
Fax: 
www.nelsonmullins.com 
(View Bio) 
From: elisabeth feliho [mailto 
Sent: Tuesday, February 23, 2016 5:20 AM 
To: Vinoda Basnayake; Bob Crowe 
Cc: Cheikh Tidiane Sy; Mohamed Seydou Diagne; El Hadji Amadou Sall 
Subject: Revised letter. Arbitrary detention of Mr. Wade 
Dear Vinoda and Bob, 
Please see attached the last version of the revised draft letter. We have made some modifications and amendments 
we submit to your proposal. You can finalize the letter as it suits you. We strongly recommend to wait Wednesday 
or Tuesday this week before sending the letter as Amnesty International will issue on Wednesday 24th February 
its worldwide report on human right situation. It is highly probable that major statement will be made on Mr. 
Wade case in the report on Senegal, which will give us more input for the letter. 
Many thanks and best regards. 
EF 
Confidentiality Notice 
This message is intended exclusively for the individual or entity to which it is addressed. This communication 
may contain information that is proprietary, privileged, confidential or otherwise legally exempt from 
disclosure. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026838 
If you are not the named addressee, you are not authorized to read, print, retain, copy or disseminate this 
message or any part of it. If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender immediately either 
by phone (800-237-2000) or reply to this e-mail and delete all copies of this message. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026839 
