Mi4heon de Reya 
Our Ref: JLUHEW/HA/Alan Dershowitz 
Your Ref: 
URGENT — NOT FOR PUBLICATION — STRICTLY PRIVATE & 
CONFIDENTIAL 
Daily Mail 
Northcliffe House 
2 Derry Street 
London 
W8 5TT 
Dear Sirs 
Our client: Alan Dershowitz 
We act for Alan Dershowitz. 
Africa House 
70 Kingsway 
London WC2B 6AH 
DX 37954 Kingsway 
www.mishcon.com 
21 Decennber 2018 
BY EMAIL 
Our client is featured in an article entitled 'Second woman claims billionaire Jeffrey Epstein 
"directed" her to have sex with lawyer Alan Dershowitz WHILE he was defending pedophile on 
underage prostitution charges' published on your website on 18 December 2018 at the 
following URL: nttps://www.uallynnaii.co.ulynewsiarucie-6,509743/econo-woman-cialms-
billionaire-Jeffrey-Epstein-directed-sex-lawyer-Alan-Dershowitz.htnnl (the Article). 
The Article 
The Article contains a number of extremely serious and highly defamatory statements about 
our client's alleged involvement with 
Heading: 
• "Second woman claims billionaire Jeffrey Epstein 'directed' her to have sex with lawyer Alan 
Dershowitz WHILE he was defending pedophile on underage prostitution charges" 
Sub-heading:  
• "Ransome alleges that she was asked to have sex with Alan Dershowitz by Epstein" 
Body: 
• "A second woman is claiming that she was 'directed' to have sex with lawyer Alan 
Dershowitz by one of his clients, billionaire felon Jeffrey Epstein"; 
• "... she was told by Epstein to have sex with Dershowitz"; 
51150637.2 
Switchboard: 
Main Fax: 
London: Mishcon de Reya LLP 
New York: Mishcon de Reya New York LLP 
Mishcon de Reya is a limited liability 
partnership, registered in England and 
Wales (number 0C399969), authorised 
and regulated by the Solicitors 
Regulation Authority, SRA number 
624547. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 020662 
IVIgheon de Reya 
• "Dershowitz would have been defending Epstein at the time of the alleged sexual 
encounter, having been hired to work on the case in 2005 when a number of underage 
girls began coming forward and telling police they were paid to have sex." 
• "This makes 
behest of Epstein." 
the second woman to allege that she had sex with Dershowitz at the 
These allegations mean and would be understood to mean that: 
• Mr Epstein directed to have sex with our client; 
• Our client had encouraged Mr Epstein to direct in this way; 
• Ms Ransonne alleged that our client had sex with her; 
• Our client did in fact have sex with 
• Our client was in some way involved in Mr Epstein's soliciting of women for 
prostitution; 
• Our client was in some way involved in Mr Epstein's soliciting of children for 
prostitution; 
• Our client's behaviour was improper and in breach of his professional obligations 
and the law; and 
• Our client is a sexual predator and/or a paedophile. 
The facts 
Our client did not have sex with Indeed, our client has never met or 
previously heard of 
has been unwilling to make any claims about our client outside the courtroom 
(we assume for privilege reasons). 
Our client has never been in any way involved in Mr Epstein's alleged soliciting of women or 
children for prostitution. Our client is not a sexual predator or a paedophile. 
We are instructed that: 
• The allegations made by form part of a wider campaign against our 
client by lawyer, David Boies, against whom our client has filed a 
complaint with the Florida bar. 
• is a known fantasist. Amongst other claims, she has claimed to have sex 
tapes of the US President, Donald Trump, as well as Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, and 
other prominent figures. She has also accused our client of having acted for her in 
the past — a claim which is easily disprovable by court records. 
51150637.2 2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 020663 
Wheon de Reya 
All of the above information was in the public domain at the time you published the Article. 
Your conduct 
Your conduct has been disgraceful. You published the Article without making any effort to 
seek our client's comment. Further, you took the story from an article in The New York Daily 
News, yet chose to ignore our client's position contained therein. You also deliberately 
embellished upon the story in The New York Daily News: nowhere in that article does it state 
either that claimed that she had sex with our client, or that she did have sex 
with him. In fact, quite the opposite, it states as follows: "Nowhere in the court case or the 
transcript does Ransome or anyone else allege that had sex with Dershowitz — or that she 
was directed to." 
It is staggering that a news organisation as well-resourced and with such a good reputation 
as yours has conducted itself in this way. 
Serious harm 
Given the gravity of the Allegations — which include imputations of seriously improper 
and/or unlawful behaviour — as well as the nature and extent of publication, there is no 
question that serious harm has been, and will continue to be, caused to our client's 
reputation. 
The serious harm you have caused to our client's reputation is not only causing him (and his 
family) great anguish, it is likely to cause significant damage to his ability to earn in the future. 
He will hold you fully liable for this. 
Immediate action required 
In view of the above, our client requires you to immediately do the following: 
I. Remove the Article from your website. 
2. Publish an apology, the terms of which to be agreed. 
3. Remove any associated links to the Article within your website. 
4. Undertake not to repeat the Allegations. 
5. Undertake to pay our client significant damages, the quantum of which to be 
agreed. 
6. Undertake to pay our client his legal costs. 
Please may we hear from you within 24 hours. In the meantime, all our client's rights are 
reserved. 
51150637.2 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 020664 
Wheon de Reya 
Yours faithfully 
jX,ki L ccyciz_i_ et-c-, LLI° 
Mishcon de Reya LLP 
Direct Tel: 
Direct Fax: 
Email: 
51150637.2 4 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 020665 
