From: J [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 2/1/2019 10:18:49 AM 
To: Michael Wolff 
Subject: Fwd: 
have fun 
----------Forwarded message--------- 
From: J <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Date: Fri, Feb 1, 2019 at 5:18 AM 
Subject: 
To: jeffrey epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
prostittion is a state crime, never before a man in his own house charged with soliciting. ! in Florida first 
offenders are required to take a sex ed class and get pre trial diversion, no criminal record. . . there is a 
felony solication for the THIRD offense. . A grand jury was held and they found me guilty of one count of 
felony solitciation. because there were many girls. . mandatory diversion. sentence. !!!! a grand jury 
. ususally only for capital murder cases. . Recarey and Reiter ( police chief). pulled my garbage for months, 
and surveilled the house . letting all the gilrs come and go ? ! called in the FBI. they did not like the grand 
jury result. and released to the press, the raw sewage of police interviews , ie, no girl was cross examined 
EVER. . Unheard of . - the girls retunred the house multiplie times. for 200 dollars for a rub and 
tug. . no sex. . some worked in the locak massage parlors, most in thier mid twenties.. There is only 
press stories told my strippers of me buying my girlfiedn from slovakia from her parents . girls under 
15. . all made up to get press. . FBI / puts a task force together title" operation leap year" to investigate 
my personal massage activity ?! nuts. interviews my chiropractor ? medical info. . etc. 
worked at Mara Lago. Trump knew of it. and came to my house many times during that 
period. The testimony of the houseman John allessi confiremed it. He never got a massage. 
abe gosman a friend of mine. ran into financial difficulty with assited living homes. . His home was listed 
at 45 million dollars. with no takers for months on end . He and I agreed a price of 30m. ( His wife . 
ends up going to jail for lying to the bankrupty trustee about her jewelry. ) this is in the summer of 04. . I 
became the stalking horse bidder at 36 m. ie if someone bid higher I would receive a fee. 
trump buys the house at the telephone auction. only me trump andd his friend pulty the developer. 
He quickly puts it on the market for 125 million, serves the purpose of a justification for a high sale later 
. . and no one will touch it. it is is bough in the name of trump properties 11c.. no idea who owns it. or 
what else it" owns ". 
Three years later 08 he sells it to Ryboloolev for approx 100 million. He should have had a 50 million plus 
capital gain. he tells people and press he spent 20-30 m to fix up. that would justifiy a reduction in captial 
gains, key question how did he report the sale , if he did at all on his 08 tax return. 
He has no money. when he buys the house. His biz model is putting his name on a real estate development and 
gets a fee for using his name. The hotel biz is just that. someone else buys the hotel. hoping to make a profit 
from its operation and eventual sale. Trump put his name on it, and get a 2 % fee and maybe a piece of the 
profit if any on sale. He touts the project as " his " . just as in his current financial statements on file as 
president he lists his " income " as the GROSS receipts of the clubs, with no expenses deducted. not his 
personal revenue. ie the doral golf club loses money every year. it pays out more than it takes in , but he lists 
the revenue as his income. AMAZING. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023044 
"Trump's relationship with Deutsche Bank has not always been amicable; in November 2008, he had difficulty 
making payments on a $640 million Deutsch Bank loan — $40 million of which he guaranteed personally — he 
took out to finance the construction of the Trump tower in Chicago." 
https ://themo scowproj ect. org/co llus ion/trump -sues-deutsche-b ank-3 -billion/  
in july , miraculously , rybololev ve buys the house for roughly the same" 40 plus million dollar" profit" 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2017/08/24/the-russian-diplomat-found-dead-in-his-
pool-in-sudan-is-the-seventh-to-die-since-november/?utm term=.77b0a287fb11  
Joe Recarey dies in june of 18. same m.o. ? 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023045 
