                    Strange Bedfellows:  
                    Culture, Mgggggggeet Science/Science, Meet Culture


This series will bring together cultural icons, celebrities, movie stars, directors, writers and musicians with famous scientists to talk about commonalities and differences.  Each segment will be moderated by scientist/author/provocateur Lawrence Krauss, who has spent much of his career successfully crossing the chasm separating science and culture.  His Origins Project at Arizona State University produced singular events in which over 3000 people would regularly attend live, and up to 500,000 people would watch the recorded events to hear dialogues and panels, to be entertained and informed. 

First Season

       1.  Johnny Depp, Courtney Love, Michael Manson talk creativity in music versus creativity in Science with Nobel Laureates Frank Wilczek and Yuval Hoffman.
       2.  Woody Allen talks about the human condition with Linguist Noam Chomsky.
       3.  Ricky Gervais and Astronomer Royale, former President of the Royal Society, Martin Rees.
       4.  Sarah Silverman and Nobel Prizewinning economist Paul Krugman.
       5.  William Shatner and Nobel Prize winning physicists Kip Thorne/ Steve Weinberg or Elon Musk. 
       6.  Director Werner Herzog, Cormac McCarthy, with biologist Svante Paabo.
       7.  Ian McEwan and physicist/writer Jana Levin or Nobel Laureate Biologist Elizabeth Blackburn.
       8.  Barack Obama and psychologist Steven Pinker.
       9.  Director Alex Garland and IT computer scientist Eric Horvitz/Larry Page 
       10.  Actor Bill Pullman and Nobel Prizewinning economist/psychologist Danny Kahneman.

The series will bring together Krauss and the directorial team that produced the Feature Documentary The Unbelievers.  Each episode will be shot in a beautiful location in a different city around the world.  We will go where the participants live, or work. 

Format will be moderated discussion.  Krauss will introduce each participant and being the episode by asking some questions to provoke discussion.  The participants will be encouraged whenever possible to dialogue with each other as well.  We may or may not have a studio audience, and if we do, we will take one or two questions from the audience to end the program before Krauss gives concluding remarks. 





