From: us.gio@jpmorgan.com
To: Undisclosed recipients:; 
Subject: J.P. Morgan exclusive conference call on Thursday, November 8th at 4pm EST: "Post-election insight: The road ahead"
Sent: 11/6/2012 10:24:50 PM

We are pleased to invite you to an exclusive J.P. Morgan Private Bank conference call, “Post-election insights: The road ahead,” on Thursday, November 8 at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time. 

 

The call will feature Peter Scher, Head of Corporate Responsibility for JPMorgan Chase. Peter is an undisputed expert in political matters, having spent nearly a decade in government service as U.S. Special Trade Negotiator and Ambassador in the Clinton administrations. The discussion will take a closer look at the election results, focusing on the political and fiscal implications and what they mean for our clients globally. 

 

The invitation below contains full details of the event. 

 

 

You are invited to participate in an exclusive conference call

 

Post-election insights: The road ahead 

Thursday, November 8, 2012 at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time

 

Hosted by

John Duffy, Chief Executive Officer, J.P. Morgan U.S. Private Bank

 

Featuring

Peter Scher, Head of Corporate Responsibility, JPMorgan Chase & Co.

 

As the new political landscape begins to take shape, join us to hear Peter discuss:

*         Global implications of election results 

*         Impact on regulatory and “fiscal cliff” legislation

*         Bipartisanship in the new environment



 

TO LISTEN TO THE CALL

Toll-free: 877.804.2965

International Toll: 706.902.2073

Conference ID: 68693542



 

ABOUT PETER L. SCHER

Peter L. Scher is the Executive Vice President and Head of Corporate Responsibility for JPMorgan Chase & Co and a member of the firm’s Executive Committee. Scher oversees Global Government Relations and Public Policy, Global Philanthropy, the Office of Environmental Affairs, and the firm’s Social Finance business, which provides financial services to the impact investing market. He led the firm’s development of the Brookings-JP Morgan Chase Global Cities Initiative, a five-year effort to help the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas become more competitive in the global economy. 

Prior to joining JPMorgan Chase in June of 2008, Scher was the Managing Partner of the Washington, D.C. office of Mayer Brown LLP, where he had been a partner since 2000 and earlier served as the chairman of the firm's Government and Global Trade Practice, overseeing that practice in the United States, Europe and Asia. 

Scher spent nearly a decade in government service. Nominated by President Clinton and confirmed by the United States Senate, he served as the U.S. Special Trade Negotiator, with the rank of Ambassador from 1997-2000. In his service as U.S. Special Trade Ambassador, he was one of the lead U.S. negotiators on China's entry into the World Trade Organization, as well as negotiations on trade issues with countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America. He earlier served as the Chief of Staff in the Office of the United States Trade Representative and in the same position at the U.S. Department of Commerce. Scher previously served on Capitol Hill as the majority staff director for the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, and as the Chief of Staff to U.S. Senator Max Baucus.

Scher has been active in civic and political activities throughout his career. He served on the staff for the Clinton-Gore campaigns of 1992 and 1996, as well as the Kerry-Edwards campaign of 2004. He has been a member of the Atlantic Council of the United States Working Group on U.S.–European Union Trade and Regulatory Issues and the Asia Task Force for the Center for Strategic and International Studies. In 2009, Scher was appointed by the White House to serve as U.S. Representative to the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum (APEC) Business Advisory Council. 

Scher serves on the Board of Trustees of American University and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He received his B.A. from American University in 1983 and his J.D. from AU's Washington College of Law in 1987.



IMPORTANT INFORMATION

This call is for educational purposes only. JPMC does not endorse any candidate or political party. It is not permissible to forward this information to anyone else. The information contained on the call is not intended as a solicitation for any product or service offered by J.P. Morgan or any of its affiliates. The views and strategies discussed may not be suitable for all investors. In the U.S., securities are offered by J.P. Morgan Securities LLC member FINRA, NYSE, and SIPC. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, is an affiliate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. “J.P. Morgan Private Bank” is a marketing name for private banking business conducted by J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries worldwide. 

Investment products: Not FDIC insured · No bank guarantee · May lose value



 

 

This email is confidential and subject to important disclaimers and conditions including on offers for the purchase or sale of securities, accuracy and completeness of information, viruses, confidentiality, legal privilege, and legal entity disclaimers, available at http://www.jpmorgan.com/pages/disclosures/email. 

