From: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 7/5/2015 9:30:29 PM 
To: Reid Hoffman 
Subject: Re: ICYMI 
heyy it looks like your diet program has worked 
On Thu, Jul 2, 2015 at 12:03 AM, Reid Hoffman 
ICYMI 
wrote: 
My occasional roundup of interesting links and 
writing I've shared — in case you missed them. :) 
New and Notable 
• We are thrilled to welcome Sarah Tavel to Greylock 
Partners. LINK 
• And also very excited to welcome lynda.com to the 
LinkedIn team! LINK 
• Change.org celebrates its 100 million users 
milestone. Emily Chang discuss this and more with CEO 
Ben Rattray on Bloomberg West: LINK 
• Byron Auguste launched Opportunity@Work, a new 
civic enterprise aimed at "rewiring the U.S. labor market." 
Tom Friedman's post: LINK 
• Mimi Ito launched Connected Camps, a summer 
online coding camp using Minecraft. LINK 
Worthwhile Reads 
• Jeff Weiner: How Linkedln is Helping Power the 
President's Tech Jobs Initiative LINK 
• The New Yorker: RU There? - Nancy Lublin and 
Crisis Text Line LINK 
• Fast Company: Inside Obama's Stealth Startup LINK 
• Jerry Chen: The Age of Developer-Defined 
Infrastructure LINK 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030002 
• Sheryl Sandberg's powerful tribute to Dave 
Goldberg. LINK 
Some of My Recent Essays 
• Wired: Why the block chain matters LINK 
• Financial Times: Acquiring proven entrepreneurs is a 
smart way to innovate LINK 
• Press Start to Continue: One More Role of Founders 
LINK 
To Watch 
• My conversation with Peter Thiel at CEIBS LINK 
• I enjoyed participating in this fun video by Founders 
Forum imagining what life would be like for tech 
entrepreneurs if the World Wide Web had never been 
invented. LINK 
Interviews 
• Vox: My discussion with Ezra Klein on the biggest lie 
employers tell employees LINK 
• Entrepreneur: Why I'm betting big on Bitcoin LINK 
• HuffPo: My discussion with Dawn Nakagawa in 
advance of the World Post conference LINK 
reidhoffman.org • areidhoffman • unsubscribe • 
update profile  
©2015 Reid Hoffman, All rights reserved. 
You are receiving this email because we are 
connected on Linkedln. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030003 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030004 
