From: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 5/24/2017 11:04:43 PM 
To: Matthew Hiltzik 
Subject: Fwd: Fw: inquiry re: Giuffre v Maxwell settlement 
Attachments: image001.png 
Privileged - Redacted 
----------Forwarded message---------- 
From: Martin G. Weinberg 
Date: Wed, May 24, 2017 at 6:53 PM 
Subject: Fw: inquiry re: Giuffre v Maxwell settlement 
To: jeevacation@gmail.com, 
Privileged - Redacted 
From: Hill, James E.  
Sent: Wednesday, May 24, 2017 6:33 PM 
To 
Subject: inquiry re: Giuffre v Maxwell settlement 
Good afternoon, Marty: 
This is James Hill at ABC News. 
Do you have any statement you wish to share on behalf of Mr. Epstein regarding the settlement reached in 
the defamation suit filed by Virginia Giuffre v. Ghislaine Maxwell? 
I know from the court filings and hearing transcripts, that Mr. Epstein was deposed in this action, but was not 
expected to be called as a live trial witness. 
According to the transcripts - it was represented by plaintiff's counsel during pre-trial hearings, that Mr. 
Epstein invoked his 5th amendment rights and declined to answer substantive questions during the 
deposition. It also appears that Judge Sweet had not yet made a final determination as to whether Mr. 
Epstein's depo, or selected portions thereof, would be admitted at trial (which is obviously a moot point, 
now). 
If you believe any of that to be in error, and/or if you wish to provide a statement about the settlement or in 
response to Giuffre's allegations about your client, please give me a call or reply to this email. 
If you have no comment, I'd appreciate you letting me know that. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022941 
Thanks 
James 
James Hill 
Sr. Producer 
ABC News 
190 N. State St. 
Chicago IL 60601 
(cell) 
(cell) 
(ofc) 
james.e.hill@abc.com 
©jameshillabc  
Virus-free. www.avast.com  
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022942 
