141/2015 Prince Andrew sex allegations: Jeffrey Epstein's butler Alfredo Rodriguez, who stole tell-all 'black book', dies age 60 
NDEPENDENT 
Prince Andrew sex allegations: Jeffrey 
Epstein's butler Alfredo Rodriguez, who 
stole tell-all 'black book', dies age 60 
Rodriguez served prison time after refusing to hand over Epstein's (pictured) book in 2011 
and attempting to sell it for over £30,000 
Loulla-Mae Eleftheriou-Smith 
Wednesday, 7 January 2015 
Alfredo Rodriguez, the butler of convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, has died, and with 
him the location of a `black book', which allegedly details "the full scope and the extent of 
Epstein's involvement with underage girls", and contact details of the businessman's 
celebrity friends. 
Rodriguez died at the age of 60 after suffering from mesothelioma last week, his widow 
Patricia Dunn told DailvMail.com.  
Dunn alleges that her late husband 'knew all about Prince Andrew," who has been named in 
the current sex scandal centring on Epstein. Allegations levelled at the Prince are that he 
was supplied with a teenage girl who was used by Epstein as a "sex slave". Buckingham 
Palace has denied the allegation. 
The 'black book' that Rodriguez had in his possession is journal in which Epstein is 
understood to have detailed the girls which attended his properties for "massages" for him 
and his friends, and details of his celebrity friends and associates who had no connection 
with alleged offences, including Bill Clinton and Donald Trump. 
Jeffrey Epstein: Controversies surrounding paedophile billionaire  
Rodriguez, who stole the book, claimed he needed it as insurance against the businessman 
to protect his own life. 
The butler failed to tell prosecutors he possessed the book and later refused to hand it over. 
He was jailed for 18 months for attempting to sell it for $50,000 (01,000). 
In 2011 it emerged that the journal "detailed the full scope and the extent of Epstein's 
involvement with underage girls," according to prosecuting lawyers, who referred to it as 
"The Holy Grail". 
Rodriguez died on 28 December. The current location of the document has not been 
disclosed and the Mirror claims  Epstein's lawyers are "petrified" about where it will go, 
according to a source. 
Read more: Boris Johnson has 'svmpathv for Prince amid sex claims  
Documents about Prince Andrew's support for Epstein 'concealed'  
http://www.independentoo.uk/news/peoplelprince-andrew-sex-allegations-jeffrey-epsteins-butier-alfredo-rodriguez-who-stole-tellall-biack-book-dies-age-60-9... 1/2 
118/2015 Prince Andrew sex allegations: Jeffrey Epstein's butler Alfredo Rodriguez, who stole tell-all 'black book', dies age 60 
Billionaire sex offender Epstein had '21 numbers' for Bill Clinton  
htto://www.independent.co.uk/news/oeople/prince-andrew-seac-allegations-jeffrey-epsteins-butler-alfreclo-rodriguez-who-stole-tellall-biack-book-dies-age-60-9... 2/2 
