Michael Boccio 
Garden City, New York 11530* Phone 
E-Mail: 
I have worked under the direct mentorship of Donald J. Trump for the past three years, and as such, understand 
the time constraints and demands placed on any successful executive. Thank you for taking the time to review 
my resume. 
As a multi-faceted executive and attorney within the Trump Organization, on a daily basis I would take charge of 
a diversified array of special projects for Mr. Trump. Whether the task involved the acquisition or disposition of 
assets, such as jets, real estate properties, operating golf courses, or helicopters, Mr. Trump consistently counted 
on me to determine what was necessary to get the deal done in the quickest time frame and at the best financial 
deal for him. I am also an elite problem solver — Mr. Trump would regularly call me into his office for my 
thoughts on the vexing issue of the moment. I have a keen ability to brainstorm potential solutions, ascertain and 
disclose the risks and execute a plan in a time-efficient manner In addition to work for the Trump Organization, 
I have successfully negotiated and executed every product license deal and agreement for the Ivanka Trump 
brand. 
The ongoing business and legal matters that occupied my time included product licensing, entertainment and 
media, tax strategy, aviation, vendor relationship management, and real estate development. While my resume 
speaks to the specific responsibilities assigned to me and my accomplishments, it is the aggregate of the diverse 
tasks that were successfully managed by me that demonstrate the fact that I am a single individual who is willing 
and capable of successfully moving into any facet of a business as a trusted advisor, deal maker and manager. It 
is well known that I can negotiate a complex business deal in the boardroom and then paper that deal in my 
office, which is a unique skill set that I could bring to work for the benefit of you and your company. 
Please contact me if you believe there is any opportunity for us to work together. 
Sincerely, 
Michael J. Boccio 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029301 
