From: Katherine Keating 
Sent: 10/31/2011 8:21:27 AM 
To: Katherine Keating 
Subject: After Words 
Dear Friends, 
I wanted to share with you the forward to my father's new book 'After Words'. He truly is 
an inspiration and so is his writing. The book, which is a compilation of his speeches, was 
launched yesterday in Sydney. I will be sure to send you a copy, it's a brilliant read. 
I trust this email finds you well. 
Kindest regards 
Katherine X 
Creativity is central to our endeavours 
BY:PAUL KEATING 
• From: 
The Australian 
October 22, 2011 12:00AM 
Paul Keating is aware that many people see him as a puzzle and contradiction. During the 
interview he explained he wrote this introduction to his book as a guide to help people see the 
unifying philosophy of his life, public and private. 
FRIEDRICH Schiller, the German philosopher, said: "If man is ever to solve the problems of politics in practice he 
will have to approach it through the problem of the aesthetic, because it is only through beauty that man makes his 
way to freedom." 
Romantic and idealistic as that view may seem to some, the thought is revelatory of the fact that the greater part of 
human aspiration has been informed by individual intuition and privately generated passions, more than it has 
through logic or scientific revelation. The moral basis of our public life, our social organisation, has come from within 
us - by aspiration and by light, not by some process of logical deduction. 
Immanuel Kant referred to our inner impulses as "the higher self", an unconscious search for truth, going deeply into 
ourselves to establish who we are and what we should be. 
Beauty is about the quest for perfection or an ideal, and that quest has to begin with aesthetic imagination - 
something informed by conscience, carved by duty. Kant called it "the inner command", the ethical construct one 
creates to guide one from within. 
But we need tools to mine good intentions: inspirations, ones which await the creative spark, the source of all 
enlargement. Creativity is central to our progress and to all human endeavour. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029558 
Music provides the clue: unlike other forms of art, music is not representational. Unlike the outcome of the sciences, 
it was never discoverable or awaiting discovery. A Mahler symphony did not exist before Mahler created it. 
E.T.A. Hoffman, a contemporary of Beethoven's, famously said: "Music reveals to man an unknown realm, a world 
quite separate from the outer sensual world surrounding him, a world in which he leaves behind all feelings 
circumscribed by intellect in order to embrace the inexpressible." 
This is not to turn our back on reason. Or to argue that modernism, with all its secular progress through education, 
industrialisation, communications, transport and the centralised state, has not spectacularly endowed the world as 
no other movement before it. But a void exists between the drum-roll of mechanisation with its cumulative power of 
science and the haphazard, explosive power of creativity and passion. Science is forever trying to undress nature 
while the artistic impulse is to be wrapped in it. 
While these approaches are different - perhaps often diametrically opposite - they inform related strands of thinking 
in ways that promote energy and vision. 
This is what I have found when these forces are contemplated in tandem. When passion and reason vie with each 
other, the emerging inspiration is invariably deeper and of an altogether higher form. One is able to knit between 
them, bringing into existence an overarching unity - a coherence - which fidelity to the individual strands cannot 
provide. 
In the world I have lived in, the world of politics, political economy and internationalism, the literature exists in 
abundance. But what is far from abundant are the frameworks for the intuitive resolution of complex problems that 
require multi-dimensional solutions. 
But from where do we glean this extra dimensionality? 
For me, it has always been from two sources: policy ambition in its own right and from imagination - the dreaming. 
Policy ambition arising from Kant's higher self, and imagination promoted by those reliable wellsprings - music, 
poetry, art and architecture - blending the whole into a creative flux. 
This collection of speeches reflects many of those interests and impulses - whether it be Joern Utzon's Opera 
House or the imperative of liberal internationalism in foreign policy or Neoclassicism, the future of native title or the 
rise of China. Each is related in a wider construct which is part and parcel of the way I have viewed and thought 
about the world. 
While the speeches are from the period after my prime ministerial life and period in government, the impulse in 
writing them came from the same framework and inclinations which informed my life in public office. 
The speeches may be read individually or read together, subject to subject, idea to idea. Either way, a common 
thread informs them all. 
I trust this might be evident to the reader. 
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/national-affairs/creativity-is-central-to-our-endeavours/story-fn59niix-
1226173494033  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029559 
Paul Keating explains as never before 
• BY:PAUL KELLY, EDITOR-AT-LARGE 
• From:The Australian 
• October 22, 2011 12:00AM 
WITH his panoramic view of world affairs sharper than ever, Paul Keating blames the current global crisis 
on blunders by European and US leaders and warns that Australia must rediscover the keys to national 
success. 
Interviewed in his Sydney office, furnished in a style he calls "the last gasp of revolutionary classicism", Keating's 
new 600-plus page book sits atop his desk, an insight into his intellectual, aesthetic and political obsessions. 
What has Keating been doing since he left office in 1996? He has been travelling, speaking and analysing the world 
and Australia with undiminished intensity suggesting a man operating as prime minister-in-exile. 
His idea of leadership is more philosophical than ever, more distant from Bob Hawke or John Howard. His focus is 
the synthesis between beauty and reason and his book encompasses China's currency, the world malaise, Mahler's 
Symphony No2 and broaching the republic with the Queen. 
During the interview Keating talks, as never before, about his leadership concept. But he is doing something else: 
explaining himself to a still puzzled nation. 
"The great changes in civilisation and society have been wrought by deeply held beliefs and passion rather than by 
a process of rational deduction," Keating tells me. In retirement, his political inspiration comes from music and 
beauty, not opinion polls. 
There are signs he has mellowed. While ruthless with his judgments Keating is keen to support a struggling Labor 
Party while addressing the source of its strategic demise. 
"The failure of the Rudd and Gillard administrations is the lack of an over-arching story, the lack of a compelling 
story," he says when interviewed last week. 
"I'm happy that Labor took us through this dreadful financial crisis so competently. But they are not in the business 
of teaching. And governments, to succeed with change, must be in the business of educating the community. 
"Our Labor governments have failed to conceptualise the changes. We need a framework. 
"What is the framework? It is 'Australia in Transition' strategically and economically. That's the story we have to 
present. 
"I think the Australian people are very conscientious. During the 1980s and 1990s we proved they will respond 
conscientiously to necessary reforms. They mightn't like them but they'll accept them. But reforms have to be 
presented in a digestible format. 
"I know that in the age of the internet, opinion and perpetual static it is difficult to get the message over. I accept 
that. But the big messages have their own momentum. If we get the story of transition right then other things will find 
their place. 
"Our problem is what I call shooting-star policies. We have a policy on carbon pricing, on minerals, on boatpeople, 
but they are not connected up to the big picture about Australia's direction and its transition." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029560 
Pressed on whether he thinks the Australian Labor Party is in permanent decline, Keating defends Labor, insists it 
doesn't have to decline but highlights the problem. "Labor must recognise what it has created," he says, invoking the 
Hawke-Keating era. "It has a created a new society and it has to be the party of the new society. 
"It can't be the party of part of the old society. Labor must be the party of those people who gained from the pro-
market growth economy that we created. Labor must be open to the influences of this middle class, to people on 
higher incomes. And I don't think it is." 
It is, perhaps, the clearest statement of Labor's problem. The party, in an act of strategic folly, abandoned the path 
of its previous success. It turned inwards on itself, away from the community. 
"At the operating level it's become the party of insiders," Keating says. "The problem is that members get too caught 
up in the gift of faction managers and they get caught up in the false construct of popularity, the false god." 
Fixated by the nature of political leadership, Keating's book After Words shouts out: "The great curse of modern 
political life is incrementalism." 
Leaning across the table he says to me that briefing notes and economic texts aren't enough: the leader must locate 
his own source of higher command and inner belief. He laments the efforts of US President Barak Obama and 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel in the teeth of contemporary challenges. 
"There is nothing preordained about American decline any more than the European project is destined to fail," he 
writes. 
"But the portents are not good. Despite the rhetoric, President Obama conducts himself as an arbitrator or mediator 
between the competing strands of American economic and political ideology. He repeatedly eschews striking out, 
snatching the naked flame and hanging on. But the cost of this strategy is not simply a cost to him; it is a cost to the 
whole world. 
"On the other hand, Chancellor Merkel is the archetypal worry-wart. She does not lead; she assesses. 
"You really wonder why leaders want these jobs when they really do not want to lead. And what is their risk? That 
Barack Obama will not get a second term? Or that Angela Merkel's coalition might finally end up on the rocks? If 
they actually made the leap they might astound themselves. Because, in the end, everyone in political life gets 
carried out - the only relevant question is whether the pallbearers will be crying." 
For Keating, the 20th-century leader exerting most influence on the coming century is China's Deng Xiaoping. 
"If you look at the other figures of the century, Roosevelt, Churchill, Stalin and Mao, none will leave the legacy in 
terms of the 21st century that Deng leaves," he says. "He walked away from the ideology of the Communist Party 
just as effectively as Mikhail Gorbachev walked away from the essence of the Soviet Union." 
By 2050 Keating sees a world order with nations in terms of gross domestic product in this hierarchy: (1) China, (2) 
US, (3) India, (4) Japan, (5) Brazil, (6) Russia, (7) Britain, (8) Germany, (9) France and (10) Italy. 
The key, however, is that Japan lags a distant fourth behind the top three. 
On America, Keating is dismayed by the pivotal change in its outlook after the end of the Cold War. "When the 
Berlin Wall came down the Americans cried victory and walked off the field," he says. 
"Yet the end of the Cold War offered the chance for America to develop a new world order. It didn't know what to do 
with its victory. This at the moment the US should have begun exploiting the opportunity of establishing a new world 
order to embrace open regionalism and the inclusion of great states like China, India and the then loitering Russia. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029561 
"Well, frankly, the US didn't have the wisdom. It just wanted to celebrate its peace dividend. The two Clinton terms 
and the two George W. Bush terms, that's four presidential terms, have cost US mightily." 
For Keating, the malaise in US politics is the problem. He says: "The most compelling thing I've seen in years is that 
in the great burst of American productivity between 1990 and 2008, of that massive increment to national income, 
none of it went to wages. By contrast, in Australia real wages over the same period had risen by 30 per cent." 
Keating sees this "as the breakdown of America's national compact", the shattering of its prosperity deal. He says 
American conservatives abandoned the middle ground represented by Republican presidents such as Dwight D. 
Eisenhower, Richard Nixon and Bush Sr and became radicals. The derailment, he argues, began under Ronald 
Reagan and reached its zenith under George W. Bush. 
With the goodwill gone the US "is not able to produce a medium-term credible fiscal trajectory or get agreement on 
rebuilding its infrastructure". This paralysis "is significant not just for the US but for the world." 
Keating links the collapse of this "prosperity compact" to the financial crisis. Too many Americans were unable to 
sustain themselves from wages and salaries. 
How did they get by? They used the easy credit of the banking system, thereby feeding the frenzy that ended in bad 
loans and meltdown. 
Keating's book has an abiding message for Australia: in the transformed world we "will find ourselves increasingly 
on our own" having to master our own destiny. 
The job is to rediscover the productivity and savings agenda of the 1990s. Why did Australia survive the 2008 
financial crisis? "Because of the flexibility of the economy," Keating says. "Flexibility which came from the reform of 
Australia's financial, product and labour markets that began 25 years ago. This has given us one of the most flexible 
economies in the world - arguably the most flexible. But further structural changes are ahead of us." 
He lists them. It is a mix of the new and old Keating agenda: a shift in resources to the extractive industries; a lift in 
capital inflow driving a high current account deficit putting a premium on savings; recognition that competitiveness 
will lie "in the creativity of our people as much as it does in our oil and gas"; a renewed emphasis on the value of hi-
tech and education; and above all, a cultural change that integrates Australia more into East Asia. "Cultural 
transformation is the key for us," Keating says. He rates it as more important than economic reform. 
"There is less interest now in being part of East Asia than there was in the 1990s," he laments. 
Keating wants this idea revived. And he ties it to the republic arguing that to succeed in Asia we must become a 
republic, a proposition Howard always dismissed. 
On China, Keating is an optimist yet alive to the daunting economic challenge China now confronts. "What is 
happening in China knows no precedence in world economic history," he says. "Never before have 1.25 billion 
people dragged themselves from poverty at such a pace. China is now half the GDP of the US and incomes have 
risen by a factor of 10." He argues, however, that the origin of the 2008 financial crisis lies in the global imbalances - 
China has built huge foreign exchange reserves by exporting too much and America, in turn, is saving too little. 
Keating says: "China must shift the basis of growth from net exports and investment to domestic consumption. Will 
they achieve this? Probably. Will there be strains along the way? There have to be." 
Unlike many Australian leaders, Keating is a Europhile. "I think the European project is the most significant project 
since the second world war," he says. But he sees two huge blunders made in Europe. 
From the euro's inception, Keating said it should constitute only Germany, France and the Benelux nations, not the 
peripheral countries around the Mediterranean, and "Greece should never have been allowed in". 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029562 
Why were the weaker economies given entry? 
Keating says: "It's because president Mitterrand and the French wanted it. They weren't ready to sit beside the 
German unified state without some friends." 
So the eurozone was flawed from the outset, a structure awaiting internal assault: "The problem is we have a single 
currency without a political union and without a fiscal union." 
The second blunder was the 1990s expansion of NATO to the Russian border. For Keating, this was recklessness 
for which the world may yet pay. 
"Sensible policy would have included a place for Russia in the new world order," he says. "But that didn't happen. 
So Russian liberals were pushed to one side by Russian nationalists. In a sense the US has created Vladimir Putin." 
Who is responsible? He points the finger at Bill Clinton. 
On the 2008 financial crisis, he says former US Federal Reserve chief Alan Greenspan must bear "a fair amount of 
responsibility". 
"Greenspan is someone I know and like," Keating says. "But if you are so naive to believe that institutions with a 
balance sheet with assets geared at 45 to one is not an accident waiting to happen then you don't deserve to be 
chairman of the Federal Reserve." 
He praises Obama for seeking a return to the "liberal internationalism" that, in Keating's view, made the US great in 
the post-World War ll age. This is the US he loves but it is still in retreat. 
Asked about the nature of leadership, Keating reveals what lies within his heart: "I believe there is a poetic strand to 
life that doesn't exist in an economics textbook. 
"This is not to say that rationalism isn't important and good. It is. But left to itself without the guidance of higher 
meaning and a higher concept, rationalism can be mean and incomplete. I say if you simply live on rational policy 
and briefing notes you are not sufficiently informed. 
"You need a higher calling or some inner system of belief - here I mention Kant and the inner command that tells 
you what is true, what is right, what is good. The inner command must be the divining construct in what you do. 
"Music has always been a large part of what makes me tick. You listen to a great work . . . you hear the majesty of 
these works and your head and soul gets caught up in them. When that happens you are in for bigger things and 
you will strike out to be better. 
"When I was listening to music I would always have the pad out to write the ideas down." 
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/paul-keatinq-explains-as-never-before/story-e6frg74x-
1226173493029  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029563 
