[Please insert on your letterhead] 
[Please insert the date here] 
US DHS CIS 
Vermont Service Center 
30 Houghton Street 
St. Albans, VT 05478 
Re: Ms. Immigration Application 
Dear Sir or Madam: 
I am writing this letter on behalf of Ms. and in 
connection with her 0-1 Visa Application. 
My name is David Blaine and I am a magician, an illusionist and an 
endurance artist. I am known for my high-profile feats of endurance, and 
have made my name as a performer of street and close-up magic. I have 
performed all over the world and have set and broken several world records, 
including holding my breath for more than 17 minutes, spending 35 hours 
atop a 105-foot pole and surviving a week buried in a coffin. I have traveled 
internationally performing magic privately for President Bill Clinton and 
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, President George W. Bush, Secretary of 
Defense Donald Rumsfeld at the Pentagon, Governor Arnold 
Schwarzenegger, Henry Kissinger, Bill Gates and Mayor Michael Bloomberg. 
I have also performed magic for the President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev, 
the President of Georgia Mikheil Saakashvili, the President of Ukraine Victor 
Yanukovych, and the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev. 
I met a few years ago through mutual friends 
and I was highly impressed with her: I first met her as an amazing fashion 
model, but, then, I discovered her intelligence, education, and her passion for 
children and education. So, when I saw the other side of Svet, performing her 
own brand of magic in fundraisers and other high end charitable events and 
organizations, I realized what an amazingly talented public relations and 
fundraising expert she is, and I was not surprised the least. 
When it comes to organizing events, finding A-list funders for her 
causes, in my opinion, is at the top of her game and is a true magician — 
the success stories she pulled for the children on the US Virgin Islands, the 
Ivory Coast, and many others are true miracles. She really makes a difference 
in the lives of the world's children. 
It is not easy to raise money for education, especially technical/ STEM 
education: People only reach into their pockets with the correct enticement. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019086 
And not everyone is inclined to support the same causes. A fundraiser and 
public relations expert of extraordinary ability recognizes this — can find, 
target, and approach the correct people for their cause, and then recruit them 
with the correct individual enticements. Repeating myself, this is a very 
difficult thing to pull off. was able to pull this off amazingly, not only 
with great efficiency and success, but with also great ease and grace; and she 
is on a roll— and it doesn't look like she will stop anytime soon. 
These are my qualified opinions: I am no stranger to raising money for 
children. Every year, I travel all across the country and the world to perform 
magic for children's hospital wards, burn units and juvenile wards, including 
Spofford, Bridges, Horizon, and Crossroads. I spent time performing magic 
for Paul Newman and the children diagnosed with serious illnesses at the 
Hole in the Wall Gang Camp, among many other charitable activities. 
I've been discussing with how we can work together in raising 
money for children and education. Therefore, I wholeheartedly support her 
visa application. If her visa application is approved, I don't see why we 
wouldn't combine our unique forms of magic and help the world's children! 
Please feel free to contact me if you have any further questions or 
concerns. 
Best Regards, 
David Blaine 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019087 
