From: Bill Siegel 
Sent: 2/8/2013 9:02:08 PM 
To: jeevacation@gmail.com 
Subject: Re: Fro- The Control Factor - Frontpage Magazine interview 
Attachments: image001.gif; image002.jpg; image003.png; image004.png; image005.jpg; image006.jpg; image007.png 
Importance: High 
StiIIIIIIIIIIIIII just engaged. I meant shirley 
From: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
To: Bill Siegel 
Sent: Fri Feb 08 15:49:51 2013 
Subject: Re: Fro- The Control Factor - Frontpage Magazine interview 
shirley or your wife 
On Fri, Feb 8, 2013 at 4:48 PM, Bill Siegel <MINIMIN> wrote: 
I will let you know when I go back. Do you know her? 
From: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacationagmail.coml 
To: Bill Siegel 
Sent: Fri Feb 08 15:16:44 2013 
Subject: Re: Fro- The Control Factor - Frontpage Magazine interview 
great. place.. when will you go.. did you get married? i m between alber and santa fe„ zorrro ranch, you can 
google earth it. 
On Fri, Feb 8, 2013 at 4:10 PM, Bill Siegel < > wrote: 
You ok? I became friendly with shirley maclaine last year and went to her ranch in sante fe. I may 
go back and remembered you own half the ranch land there or something. Do you still like it there? 
From: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacationagmail.com> 
To: Bill Siegel 
Sent: Fri Feb 08 14:58:01 2013 
Subject: Re: Fro- The Control Factor - Frontpage Magazine interview 
I already rad it. congragulations hope to see you soon 
On Fri, Feb 8, 2013 at 3:40 PM, Bill Siegel lOMMIN wrote: 
Bill Siegel hopes this might be of interest to you: http://frontpagemag.com/2013/jamie-glazovithe-control-
factor-our-struggle-to-see-the-true-threat/  
The Control Factor: Our Struggle to See the True 
Threat 
February 8, 2013 By Jamie Glazov Comments (6) 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024419 
22 
a Print This Post 
THE 
CONTROL 
FACTOR 
()Ur S r USSA tO SCC ihr1rut ThrCat 
BILL SIEGEL 
FrontPage Interview's guest today is Bill Siegel, a lawyer and 
business executive. He has been a producer of several documentary films and assists numerous non-profit 
organizations. He is the author of The Control Factor: Our Struggle to See the True Threat. 
FP: Bill Siegel, welcome to FrontPage Interview. 
Congratulations on this brilliant book. It is without question one of the most vital works of our time. 
Let's begin with what inspired you to write it. 
Siegel: Thanks for having me Jamie. As a young boy born in the mid 1950s, I was fascinated with footage of 
Hitler and the Third Reich and could never understand how the Jews of the time could not see the evil that 
seemed so obvious. Not yet appreciative of the benefit of hindsight, I could not comprehend the blindness. 
Following 9/11, like so many others, I began to study Islam, its history, its current movements, terrorism and 
so on. As I would learn one stunning aspect after another, I would discuss them with friends and associates. 
Rather than confront the facts I would present, they would find one clever way after another to avoid the 
frightening truth of what America and the West truly face. Their fear appeared obvious to me. I began to 
catalog many of my friends' different maneuvers to dispel the anxiety that they found so difficult to endure. 
The more I focused on their mental processes (as well as my own) the more I began to see a structure to the 
mental endeavor and to understand what I had, as a child, found so difficult to explain. 
FP: Tell us about the Control Factor, what you describe as "that effort our minds enga ge in in order to keep 
us blind" and that "process of a voiding seeing the threats we face." It's also about, as you state, trying to 
believe that the threat is under our control, when in fact it is not. Kindly enlighten us as to these profound 
insights you make in terms of the Control Factor. 
Siegel: First, let's distinguish the "real world" where real battles are taking place from the mental battlefield 
which occurs in each of our minds. We tend to believe our perceptions are simply clear realizations of what 
is "out there" and overlook how much our internal worlds can literally determine what we see. When our 
internal minds become anxious and sense a loss of "control," they tend to concoct ways to distort our 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024420 
perceptions so as to restore that sense of inner control. I describe the Control Factor as an "active and 
continuous process" designed to maintain that sense, if not illusion, of control. We natural ly think that our 
thinking and feeling processes are passive; that they just happen. Yet when faced with truly frightening 
prospects, the mind is geared to actively distort. 
Similarly, the sense of control must be continuously maintained so the Control Factor operates constantly. In 
turn, the sum of this active and continuous undertaking makes these perceptions all the more familiar and 
thus seemingly all the more "real." In one sense, the Control Factor is the mechanism of what Andy 
McCarthy entitled one of his numerous excellent books- willful blindness. The Control Factor is cleverer 
than we are aware; that is almost tautological as, if our minds are to create ways to keep us in denial, they 
must out maneuver our conscious thinking. 
Since World War II, America has had limited experience with threats coming to the homeland. Most of 
America's history has been about "over there," where we have always known that if things got too out of 
hand (e.g. Vietnam) we could always ret urn home. The current generations, for a wide array of reasons, 
have had virtually no experience with a threat to this land. (The documentary, Generation Zero, is interesting 
on this point). 
Consequently, the process of waking up to such a threat parallels the arc of a typical horror film. In such a 
film, there is typically a cast of characters surrounding one or two main characters. We in the audience know 
there is a threat coming — be it a monster, a virus, a psycho killer, an alien, the blob that ate Cincinnati etc. 
This threat is typically defined by its intent- the singular goal of destroying the characters. Much of the initial 
exposition shows how the characters first are oblivious to the destruction the threat brings about, then explain 
it in familiar terms only to finally open their eyes to see that something uniquely terrifying is happening. The 
next stage usually involves a series of failed attempts to deal with the threat- fr om trying to negotiate with it, 
to appease it, to coax it, to threaten it with ineffective weapons and so forth. Most of these failings are due to 
not adequately appreciating the threat for what it truly is and projecting onto it a host of other attributes 
instead. The final stage generally involves a back-up-against-the-wall decision by whichever characters 
remain alive. I named this the "turnaround moment" when the character becomes willing to be as ruthless as 
the threat. That change in mental state is necessary to ensure survival. Ultimately, the storyline is a race for 
whichever characters remain to wake up fully and use whatever advantages they may still have to beat the 
threat. 
This is the same arc our minds go through in battling our own Control Factors, our own compulsions to deny 
that which is staring us in the face. Ultimately, the question is whether we will be able to wake up while we 
still have advantages and give ourselves permis sion to fully fight the battle we are in. 
I said ear her that there is a structure to the Control Factor. To oversimplify, I view it much as a pyramid 
where on the bottom are the many minute by minute thoughts that are manipulated. I call this level of 
maneuvers the many "D's" as they include the psychological defenses such as distortion, denial, 
demonization, deflection, deletion, detachment, delusion, displacement, discolorization and so forth. Layered 
upon these are moves such as projection, where we can assign to our Islamic Enemy traits we wish to see in 
them or introject traits from them into ourselves that we wish not to acknowledge. These maneuvers involve 
a mixing of identities where we actually lose clarity about who we are and who the enemy is. Projection and 
introjection are active almost across the board. It is always helpful, for instance, to ask how what the enemy 
accuses us of is more appropriately descriptive of it. When we add Western Guilt and Shame, our need to be 
liked, and o ther psychological dimensions, basic thoughts solidify into larger fantasies. 
As these narratives ("Our courts will never allow that," "As a superpower we will always be able to win any 
fight we put our minds to," "Assimilation will ensure Muslims are westernized" ...) gain consent from others 
they tend to guide us deeply and become infused on our policies. Ultimately, what emerges is a relationship 
we take with our Islamic Enemy that parallels that between an addict and an enabler. Emblematic of this 
relationship is the "transfer of responsibility" in which we assume responsibility for the enemy's behavior 
who is addicted to transferring it away from itself The Control Factor actively maintains this relationship 
and makes changing that relationship as difficult a chore as any addict finds in breaking his addiction. And 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024421 
just as an addict needs to devote serious effort and con sciousness to his addiction, so must we devote great 
energy to unders tanding how the Control Factor ultimately sabotages us. 
FP: Describe the threat we face in our Islamic enemy. And you talk about the three levels of jihad against us. 
What are they? 
Siegel: Simply stated, our Islamic Enemy seeks the totalitarian domination of Islam throughout the world — 
Islamic supremacy. It seeks to have the West submit to Islam. Obviously, this does not mean that everybody 
becomes a Muslim. Islam, in all its varied expressions, permits dhimmis- those Christians, Jews, and some 
others who are permitted to remain as protected non-Muslims as long as they submit to an inferior status. 
What is critical is that Shariah (Islamic Law) ultimately rules the world. 
Jihad, loosely, is the effort/struggle to see this vision through. The most obvious method of Jihad is through 
violence; it is the one most familiar to most Westerners and almost all of the Koranic references to Jihad are 
based in violence. The Violent Jihad includes al-Qaeda and its offshoots as well as other groups that formed 
around the globe independent of al-Qaeda. It also obviously includes the violence from Islamic nations such 
as the Islamic Republic of Iran whose constitution specifies such vision. It also includes, however, various 
militant groups and training camps here in the US as well as ad hoc efforts of individuals. 
Since 9/11, there have been something in excess of 15,000 Violent Jihadic attacks across the globe. 
However, as terrible as this is, we have a tendency in the West to think that the only dimension of threat we 
face comes from violence. While the Bush administration helped initiate this thinking, the Obama 
administration has actively abused it by limiting any discussion of the threat we face to al-Qaeda and some 
other terrorist groups abroad. As frightening as these groups are, we can get some ease from thinking they 
are a band of "extremists limited in number, weaponry, sophisticati on, and means. Stunningly, Hillary 
Clinton recently estimated that there are only about 50,000 "homicidal" violent extremists around the world 
who simply have been able to project power much greater than their number should allow. Here the Control 
Factor makes the threat appear more easily manageable. 
Jihad, however, is pursued in other often even more effective ways which I have grouped into three "levels." 
A second more insidious level of threat is what the Muslim Brotherhood itself called the "Civilization Jihad." 
It is the effort to infiltrate all aspects of our society, peacefully according to our laws, in order to later be in 
position to sabotage and destroy it from the inside. The Civilization Jihadists have learned the culture and 
rules of the territories they seek to command and use those rules to maneuver—specifically using our 
freedoms to destroy our freedoms. They use "lawfare" to seek changes in our laws so as to push Shariah into 
our society. Your readers should read Daniel Pipes and Brooke Goldstein's Lawfare Project material and 
others to fully appreciate how cancerous this activity has become. This includes intimidating in a variety of 
ways anyone who speaks out against them or Islam and seeking to squelch our treasured broad right to free 
speech so as to ultimately prevent any criticisms of Islam. Once criticism of Islam is prohibited, little can 
stop it from cascading throughout the culture. 
The Civilization Jihad includes situating such Jihadists in critical positions in the society, in the government, 
in the legal system, the military, and elsewhere. It includes the control over university programs that 
distribute propaganda about Islam and Islamic history which then filters down throughout textbooks for even 
younger students. It includes control over most of the nation's mosques and local Imams guiding the mess 
ages engaged Muslims are receiving. Most troublesome are the Muslim g roups (CAIR, ISNA, MSA and 
others associated and/or joint venture partners with the Muslim Brotherhood) supposedly interested in 
"outreach" which know how to appear Westernized and interested in the goals of Western Civilization. They 
have fooled a large part of our authorities and media due in part to their patience and willingness to chip 
away, one airport prayer room, one frivolous intimidating lawsuit, one Congressman or CIA officer, one 
mosque, one ruling at a time. 
Particularly in the US, given our deep attachment to freedom as well as cultural and psychological tendencies 
toward diversity, Western guilt and expectations of truthfulness, this effort is devious and difficult to uproot. 
The Civilization Jihadists present one face to the American public which is completely at odds with their true 
agenda and how they deal in private. Jamie, you and David and others such as Steve Emerson, Frank 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024422 
Gaffney, Andy McCarthy and others have done s o much to uncover this level of Jihad that your readers 
should be urged to review as much of their work (including Steve's recent excellent documentary, The Grand 
Deception,  and Frank's important web video course, The Muslim Brotherhood in America) as possible. 
Finally, there is a third level — the International Institutional Jihad. Here the most powerful international 
institutions such as the UN and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and others seek to push into 
America from without those changes which are difficult to complete from within. The OIC is the largest 
Islamic institution in the world. It essentially controls the vote in the UN's General Assembly and thus 
explains in part the absurd and abject pro-Islamic, anti-Israel thrust of that organizat ion. This level seeks to 
use the power of Islamic nations to work fro m outside the West to force changes within the West. While 
there are various conflicts between many of the nations, being Islamic majority states, there is a great deal 
they agree upon which becomes the focus of these efforts. Just as the Obama administration is beginning to 
cooperate with international efforts to control gun ownership, so has Hillary Clinton's Istanbul Process 
become a dangerous step in the effort to restrict speech critical of Islam by norm (or possibly even treaty) 
when it may not be fully executable by domestic action alone. 
I should point out that Stephen Coughlin, the former Pentagon officer who has an important must-see 
presentation of Islamic Law, uses different names for these same three levels — Jihad, Dawa, and Ummah. 
Had I seen his work before I wrote my book I would have conformed to his categorizations. 
We must learn how powerful language has become on all three levels. Words such as "peace,. $B!1 
"freedom," "terrorism," and phrases such as "human rights" have different meanings for us and for our 
Islamic Enemy. To oversimplify, "peace" is not something for now but that which comes when all the earth 
is submitting to Islam. In the context of battles, "peace" is at best a temporary ceasefire. "Freedom" is best 
understood as having the freedom to fully submit to Islam, not to choose whatever beliefs one desires while 
respecting the same right in others. We've all seen how "human rights" and "terror" really only apply among 
Muslims, not to non-Muslims. Our enemy fully understands these differences and uses them at all levels to 
paralyze us. 
Look simply at how the phrase "Israeli-Palestinian conflict" has equalized the two parties, making it all the 
easier to ascribe features of one to the other and view the problem as a simple-to fix division of ass ets into 
statehoods but for personality problems among the leaders. The simple truth is that this is and has always 
been a one-sided Arab war against Israel as Ruth Wisse and others have described and, as Bibi Netanyahu 
made clear, the ONLY state truly at issue here has been the State of Israel that the Arabs have refused for 
over half a century. Nonetheless, the Control Factor hypnotically abuses the mind's susceptibility to the 
intricacies of language. 
Even the label "Peace Process" has been damaging language. While most focus upon the first word, turning 
this into a "process" has helped ensure that peace is never obtained. It is more appropriately called the 
"Extortion Process" because all that results is that violence is used over decades to extract concessions from 
Israel. 
These three levels must be understood for their differences while united by a single goal. While these levels 
often op erate together and assist each other, we must avoid "level confusion" which the Control Factor 
employs to curtail our fears. If the Obama narrative is swallowed- that the only threat is the Violent Jihad-
we will miss the other contamination fomenting within our borders. We must appreciate how these levels 
work together and even unite with other forces such as the global Leftist movement that you, Jamie, have 
described so forcefully in United in Hate. 
FP: You write about how we like to talk of "Good Muslims" and how we are always on the eternal search 
for "moderate" Muslims (Khatami, Mousavi, Abbas, etc), while we stress how the "extremists" are the real 
problem and how "few" they really are. All of this is connected to the Control F actor. Enlighten us. 
Siegel: The Control Factor seeks to have us feel in control of the situation. The easiest way to do this is to 
simply minimize the number of potential enemies. We have been lectured for years about how Islam is a 
"religion of peace" and that the violence we see (remember that we have already improperly limited the 
problem to violence) is the product of a small number of "crazies" (remember Hillary Clinton's 50,000) who 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024423 
have distorted Islam. I call this the "Peaceful Muslim Disclaimer" as virtually everyone in the press and 
government has been bullied into making some statement of the kind to silence those who will pressure them 
that they are "Islamophobic" and Islam is being attacked. (These are the Islam hustlers who operate on the 
same principles that black race hustlers so effectively used to extort concessions over the last six decades or 
so). 
Nobody has done any real work to support this proposition, nor is it clear exactly how it would be tested. My 
view is that the grammar "Islam is x" is itself problematic because Islam has expressed itself throughout 
history in a variety of fashions. It is more useful to talk in terms of how seriously engaged with Islam, the 
Koran and other texts, a Muslim is. What is significant is how Muslims today are using Islam and most of 
those who are in power either throughout a large territory or within a small community tend toward, if not 
fully advocate, the very supremacist ideas that we try to tell ourselves are reserved for the 
few "extremists." Presumably most Germans did not wish to see all Nazi atrocities carried out but in the end 
they fell in line because they had to. Those our politicians and press call the "extremists" are in one sense 
more accurately the "good" Muslims who ar e following their Islamic beliefs dutifully. 
FP: Tell us how Western shame and guilt play into all of this. 
Siegel: One of the dirty little secrets the Control Factor preys upon is that if we believe we control something 
we can comfort ourselves that we can change it. Remember the horror film- the threat has one purpose and 
that is to destroy you. You can not change it, talk it out of it, teach it alternatives or otherwise. That is what 
makes it so inherently frightening. If we can convince ourselves that we caused the threat to act the way it 
does we can maintain the secret hope that we can change it. Consequently, there is a tremendous attraction to 
blaming ourselves for the Islamic Enemy's behavior. And we see this power in our readily accepting 
responsibility for terror- because of our occupation, our greedy quest for oil, our failure to extend a hand of 
"engagement," Israel's building settlements, our making videos that defa me Mohammed and so on. Again, 
the relationship is defined by the enemy blaming us for his actions and our accepting such responsibility. 
Shelby Steele has written brilliantly about what he calls "white guilt" and outlines how whites during the 
60's and thereafter were pressured into a transaction whereby in order to re-obtain a sense of moral authority 
they accepted blame for the condition of blacks and behaved as if guilty. Blacks were able to extract great 
concessions and whites were able to view themselves as morally restored and redeemed. At a certain point, 
however, the behavior takes on a life of its own and the narratives become deeply embedded in the culture 
and, as we can see today, difficult to uproot. 
Western guilt is an extension of Steele's notion. President Obama's confessionals to the Arab world 
admitting that America has made "mistakes" and was not born a colonial pow er express this same tendency 
to appease through guilt. Hillary Clint on's "reset" with Russia conveyed the same submissive request for a 
more acceptable response. In being guilty we presume the other party will recognize our contrition and 
respond in like kind. One of the Control Factor's most devastating moves is employed- presuming the other 
is just like us and will respond the way we would. This is frequently how an enabler justifies his continuous 
support for an addict. The problem, however is that our Islamic Enemy is NOT like us and will not respond 
in like kind. Rather, as we repeatedly refuse to learn, appeasement invites more abuse from an 
enemy. This becomes the "game of guilt;" it tends to expand to greater and greater consequences. 
Paradoxically, psychological defenses tend to create the very outcomes they seek to eliminate and it is no 
different here. It is a game we love to play but, unfortunately, the game gives us no rules for how to end it. 
All beha vior is instructive. That is, we teach others how to treat us. The game of guilt, along with other 
Control Factor tools, teaches our Enemy it is winning and to continue playing. 
FP: The reason Nidal Hasan was able to perpetrate his murder spree at Fort Hood is precisely because of our 
Control Factor. Please connect the dots for our readers. 
Siegel: Just as I used to look at Hitler when I was young and be amazed that no one could see what he was 
about, in retrospect the same applies to Hasan. It is precisely all the elements of the Control Factor that could 
allow this man, a Soldier of Allah, to be positioned as he was. He was blatantly voicing his Islamist views 
and Jihadi intent including, even, an essay recommending the "painful liquidation" of non-Muslims. Yet, in 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024424 
the Army of all places, the Control Factor operated to allow and even foster his work. Even after the 
murders, we cont inue the denial by calling it "workplace violence." He is the Civilization-Violent Jihad 
combo! And we continue to enable the same infiltration elsewhere. 
FP: Tell our readers about "The Project" and "Explanatory Memorandum." These are realities that serve as 
great threats to the Control Factor, right? 
Siegel: These are separate sets of documents that outline the Muslim Brotherhood's goals and 
plans underlying the Civilization Jihad. The former was discovered in Europe and extends globally. The 
1991 Explanatory Memorandum emerged in 2008 from the Holy Land Foundation trial and describes the 
Brotherhood's work in America as a "Civilization-Jihadist Process with all the word means" and "a kind of 
grand Jihad in eliminating and destroying the Western civilization from within and 'sabotaging' its miserable 
house by their own hands and the hands of the believers so that it is eliminated and God's religion is made 
victorious over all other religions." 
Much as the communists of the Soviet Union had formulated in the 1950s a detailed long term plan to 
destroy America (many of the effects of which we are seeing of late including destroying the nuclear family, 
secularizing the nation, feminizing men ...) these documents identify many strategies to infiltrate while 
eroding the foundations of our civilization in order to transform it into an Islamic one. The Control Factor 
has many ingenious ways to convince us that this is ridiculous, that our courts and system would never allow 
such a thing, that one is racist or "Islamophobic," if not insane, for even thinking this is real. And just as 
with the communists, time is plentiful. Even more so with our Islamic Enemy, a multi-decade plan is short 
term. It is not critical that a seriou sly engaged Muslim lives to see the result. It is critical, more correctly a 
duty, however, that he carries on his Jihad. Patrick Poole and The Center for Security Policy's Team B 
Report, Shariah: The Threat to America, are excellent sources for your readers to pursue these documents. 
FP: And so what you call an "Inner Jihad" has to start. It's our, as you say, mandatory "addiction treatment." 
Please explain. 
Siegel: The "Inner Jihad" is the effort we must undertake to gain control over our Control Factors. There is a 
famous Hadith in which Mohammad, returning from a successful battle, essentially says that the physical 
fight was the "lesser Jihad" and it is time to then attend to the "greater Jihad 4"- that internal battle against 
our own internal appetites, lusts, wrong thinking and so forth. While that Hadith has been falsely utilized to 
say that "Jihad" is not violent, it is useful to us as a symbol of the vicious effort we must take internally 
against our own Control Factor tendencies. 
As I said earlier, the Control Factor is "active" and "continuous" so we must constantly monitor and combat 
it. Like "Whack-a-Mole," just as we may think we have addressed it, another variation pops right up. I use 
the terms "addict" and "enabler" because we truly need a form of rehab to break the habitual power of the 
Control Factor and because our relationship with our Islamic Enemy is very much like that between a typical 
addict and his enabler. And just as it is so difficult for an addict to kick his habit, so does the enabler act 
essentially addicted to his behavior and find it so difficult to change. At its core, the relati onship involves 
the transfer of responsibility for our Islamic Enemy's hate and resultant actions onto us with our response 
framed essentially as an effort to do what we can to try to address the Enemy's grievance. (Your book, 
United in Hate, describes this addiction to hate in detail. 
The key to the Inner Jihad is to learn to transfer responsibility for our Islamic Enemy's hate and resultant 
actions back to it and take responsibility back for our own situation. We must learn all we can about the 
enemy. We must unwind our inappropriate projections and introjections and rediscover who we are and are 
not. We must speak up. We must support those Muslims who promote expressions of Islam that are 
consistent with our principles. And we must stalk the C ontrol Factor, constantly be on guard for its 
intrusion. This is an individual endeavor as each of our Control Factors uses its own methods. The book 
gives plenty of examples of each maneuver discussed but it is important for each of us to discover the unique 
workings of his own mind. That takes the work of the Inner Jihad. 
FP: Share with our readers what you mean by the "Turnaround Moment." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024425 
Siegel: There is a moment in typical horror films where the central characters have been pushed to their 
limit. They then change and fully embrace the willingness to be as ruthless as the threat they face. No more 
moral high ground; no more futile attempts to ignore or change the threat's essence. As Lee Harris described 
in The Suicide of Reason, it is the willingness o r license to be (not necessarily actually being) as ruthless 
that is critical. It is a mental state that sheds all the prior counter-productive efforts at denial to finally clearly 
focus on the threat faced. Part of the Inner Jihad is to reach that Turnaround Moment sooner rather than later. 
FP: You suggest that "mirroring" should be used as part of our arsenal. Tell us about it. 
Siegel: Mirroring is a literal approach to transferring back to the addict responsibility that we have been 
inappropriately accepting. Critical to the addict/enabler relationship is asymmetry. Like the addict, the 
enemy uses a less limiting set of rules than we do. The enemy typically initiates aggression while we respond 
only. Mirroring means that we demonstrate our willingness to act symmetrically, to be governed by the same 
rules. It is stunning how much is accomplished when one's attitude simply is clear that he will do what is 
necessary; often not much else is needed as the addict or enemy realizes the game is fundamentally changed. 
But other times action is absolutely needed. Demonstrating that we are not afraid to treat the enemy as it 
treats us carries great meaning. Imagine (international law aside) if Israel announced that from now on it will 
mirror Hamas such that if civilian populations are targeted by bombs from Gaza, Israel will do the same (it is 
accused of such anyway). The population might finally rethink and take responsibility for its privilege of 
voting its leaders. As stated earlier, all behavior is instructive and when we mirror we teach the other the 
effects of his behavior. 
Conversely, some situations demand that we assert asymmetry; those cases where it is necessary to highlight 
our differences with the enemy. Just this week, an disingenuous report was issued by an NGO drawing an 
equivalence between Palestinian and Israe li schoolbooks claiming that both sides have their relativistic" 
narratives." Yet, as the Palestinian Media Watch's website has demonstrated for years, there is nothing in the 
West anywhere comparable to the hatred spewed daily by the Palestinian Authority, including through its 
education system. It is interesting to note that while the US State Department initially funded the "study,"- in 
what appears to be an attempt to sanitize the PA's record so that the US can continue to fund the PA against 
the spirit of US law- Hillary Clinton has a difficult time escaping her conclusion as Senator in 2007 that 
these schoolbooks along with other media "profoundly poison(s) the minds of these children." It is most 
important that we do not succumb to this type of use of symmetry that distorts the profound differences 
between us and the enemy. 
Essentially, we are not clear as a nation, participating in a world with international rules, how to bes t fight 
this enemy. The first act of any rehab is to acknowledge that we do not know how nor are we yet competent 
to stop our addictions. This is not a book about policy. In fact, the "right" policies are unlikely to emerge 
until a critical mass has meaningfully dealt with their Control Factors and share a common perspective. We 
like to look at our history and assume a single perspective throughout but the truth is that we had to learn 
how to respond to Pearl Harbor, the Nazis, the Cold War etc. The same applies here. Our press promotes 
"elites" who are tasked with acting as if they possess the "true wisdom" to deal with our threats but the truth 
is we do not know nor are we equipped to marshal enough of our population to agree just yet. The sooner we 
learn, however, the less we will suffer. Mirroring has always been a key component of those lessons. 
I have been encouraged by some recent acts that have begu n to nip at the asymmetry. For years, the 
language of "feeling s" had been reserved for our enemy while we were limited to that of "action;" we would 
do terrible acts that would cause bad feelings in the enemy which would then serve to justify whatever 
response it made. It had always been a question of the harsh insensitive acts Westerners do against Muslims 
and the resulting hurt, loss, shame etc. that Muslims experience. The Ground Zero Mosque incident, 
however, broke new ground because all of a sudden non-Muslims' feelings became the focus and were cast 
as resulting from Muslim acts. Another example was seen in how quickly the attempt to blame the 
Benghazi murders on the video about Mohammad fell apart. Just as large corporations eventually learned to 
turn away from shakedown attempts from race baiters, we are beginning to learn to demand symmetry 
through mirroring. A word of caution: When enablers change their behavior and demand symmetrical rules f 
or the addict, the latter typically initially erupts with great resistance. This is a stage we must be prepared to 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024426 
tolerate and fully withstand as it creates the only real chance for the addict to finally change. It is critical, 
therefore, that when we finally engage in mirroring that we be prepared to see it through completion. 
FP: What if we fail to engage in our own Inner Jihad and the Control Factor stays firmly in place? 
Siegel: Critical to the Inner Jihad is the realization that our civilization is fragile; not to be taken for granted. 
Our demands for multi-culturalism and diversity have bumped heads with the simple paradox that tolerating 
the intolerant leads to extinction. Tolerating the intolerant is perhaps the most crystalline version of 
asymmetry we have accepted. Seriously engaged Muslims MUST place the Koran above all law while in 
America, the Constitution ranks supreme. As Omar Ahmad, founder of CAIR, reputedly said, "Islam isn't in 
Amer ica to be equal to any other faith, but to become dominant. The Koran is the highest authority in 
America and Islam is the only accepted religion on Earth." Who makes law- the people or Allah? While the 
Control Factor constantly seeks for some accommodation between the two, this conflict CAN NOT be 
negotiated. Only one can survive not because we have declared "war" but because our Islamic Enemy has. 
That is, perhaps, the lesson we will most need to fully learn, one way or another. We will eventually hit a 
Turnaround Moment as a nation and if enough of us are not truly prepared to fight and continue to be 
controlled by our delusions, we will lose. If we truly seek to win, it is better to get there sooner while we 
have advantages than later. 
FP: Bill Siegel, thank you for joining FrontPage Interview. 
And thank you for writing this superb and most important book. 
We encourage all o four readers to get their hands on The Control Factor: Our Struggle to See the True  
Threat and to read it! 
Editor's note: To watch The Glazov Gang's recent discussion about the Muslim Brotherhood's 
infiltration of the United States and the Obama administration, see this week's episode below: 
Freedom Center pamphlets now available on Kindle: Click here. 
Filed Under: Daily Mailer, FrontPage Tagged With: Denial, Islam, muslim brotherhood, Obama, Siegel, The 
Control Factor  
22 
a Print This Post  
About Jamie Glazov  
Jamie Glazov is Frontpage Magazine's editor. He holds a Ph.D. in History with a specialty in Russian, U.S. 
and Canadian foreign policy. He is the author of the critically acclaimed and best-selling, United in Hate:  
The Left's Romance with Tyranny and Terror. His new book is High No on For America. He is the host of 
Frontpage's television show,  The Glazov Gang, and he can be reached at jamieglazoyll@gmail.com. Visit 
his sit at JamieGlazov.com. 
Login 
Follow the discussion  
Comments (6) 
Sort by: Date Rating Last Activity 
+3 
AdinaK 86p 11 hours ago  
The war being waged has two components - mental and physical. The mental side is a minefield of 
constructs, deeply implanted within generations of Americans, and its PC chickens are coming home to 
roost. So much so, millions of Americans (westerners) cannot break free of its shackles. But it is not as if 
these mental chains magically appe ared. Far from it - http://adinakutnicki.com/2012/11/26/the-death-of-...  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024427 
In addition, the fault-lines of democracy allowed for the most retrograde forces, on this planet, to infiltrate 
and penetrate the body politic- http://adinakutnicki.com/2012/09/02/the-subversio...  
IF the mental and physical constraints are not immediately removed, it is a given that western civilization 
will fall. Cause and effect. 
Adina Kutnicki, Israel - http://adinakutnicki.com/about/  
Report 
Reply 
1 reply • active 30 minutes ago 
0 
dmw 30 minutes ago  
And I would think one "phy sical constraint" is to not let them in in the first place. By & quot;them" I mean 
those who have allegiance to a socio-political system disguised as a religion that seeks world dominance by 
man imposed methodology/effort -- unlike Judaism and Christianity properly understood. If we are to 
"believe", the world already has a King and does not need a Caliph. 
Report 
Reply 
0 
MikeWood 6 hours ago  
Ground-breaking, brilliant. There are absolutely essentially lessons to be learned from this. Buy this book, 
read it, study it, and lend it to your friends and colleagues. Do it. 
Report 
Reply 
0 
lambsev77 54p 4 hours ago 
The fall of Rome... The fall of the 3rd Reich... The fall of Western Civilization... 
00000h... Scary! 
How about the fall of humankind recorded in Genesis Chapter 3 and following? 
We're ALL GONNA DIE! But will you rise with Christ? 
Report 
Reply 
+1 
@WolfyJam 2 hours ago 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024428 
Notice how celebrities basking in their narcissism think they can dictate culture to us while they live their 
lives in the comfort of their ivory castles. Mia farrow has no clue what the right to bear arms means and 
because of that she needs to shut the hell up. As far as blacks go-- I grew up in the 70's coming home from 
Hallahan H.S. in Philadel phia, me and my small group of girls were swarmed by a mob of black girls who 
would kick and slap and pull hair without provocation, of course we would fight back but then that was back 
in the day when whites weren't sissies. Still I made excuses for them. Black men would get in my face for no 
other reason than to intimidate me. rocks were thrown a my car for no reason. So, in short, based on my 
experiences Blacks are the cause of racism and if they hate whites so much then they should stay away 
completely and totally. 
Report 
Reply 
+1 
@WolfyJam 2 hours ago  
I read the Control factor and it was excellent. I wish more people would realize that our country is at its most 
vulnerable than ever in its history. the jihadis have basically taken over the inner cities. Islam's love for 
violence coupled with ignorance and narcissim are a recipe for disaster. I hope Americans wake up in time to 
save their future. I'm not optimistic though. I think its over but still I fight on. 
Report 
Reply 
Post a new comment 
Top of Form 
Bottom of Form 
Comment as a Guest, or login: 
Login to IntenseDebate 
Login to WordPress.com 
Login to Twitter 
Top of Form 
Name 
Email 
Displayed next to your comments. 
Not displayed publicly. 
Bottom of Form 
Submit Comment 
Subscribe to 
FPM appreciates your comments that abide by the following guidelines: 
1. Avoid profanities or foul language. 
2. Stay on topic. 
3. No ad hominem attacks. 
4. Threats are treated seriously and reported to law enforcem ent. 
5. Spam and advertising are not permitted in the comments area. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024429 
6. Impersonators will be banned immediately. 
--
*********************************************************** 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
Jeffrey Epstein 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
--
*********************************************************** 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
Jeffrey Epstein 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
--
*********************************************************** 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
Jeffrey Epstein 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024430 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 024431 
