From: Darren Indyke > 
To: Jackie Perczek 
Date: 4/7/2011 1:27 PM 
Subject: Privileged and Confidential 
Attachments: Edwards Articles -1.doc; Edwards Articles - 12.pdf; Edwards Articles - 10.pdf; Edwards 
Articles - 9.doc; Edwards Articles - 8.doc; Edwards Articles - 7.doc; Edwards Articles - 6.doc; Edwards 
Articles - 5.doc; Edwards Articles - 3.doc; Edwards Articles - 2.doc; Edwards Article - 13.pdf; Part.012 
See additional articles. 
Darren K. Indyke 
Darren K. Indyke, PLLC 
301 East 66th Street, 10B 
New York, New York 10065 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013415 
Local News: West Palm Beach, Palm Beach County, Martin & St. Lucie Counties I The Palm Beach Post 
4/6/11 1:38 PM 
NEWS 
LEARN MORE, 
LOCATE 
'lamed an a 
NEXT GENERATFON PENNZOIL® 
CLEANS OUT UP TO 40% OF 
SLUDGE IN THEIST OIL CHANGE!' 
Mint elk Pennzoil.° 
re ab.Elge clearrup test using tAE 900,111_ 
Subscribe Now I Renew [-POST I JOBS I AUTOS I REAL ESTATE I CLASSIFIEDS I PLACE AN AD 
I MONEY I OBITUARIES I OPINION I LIVING I ENTERTAINMENT I PHOTOS I VIDEOS 
BREAKING NEWS: Gov. Scott OKs last-minute bailout for courts, averting two-week furloughs Click to read story 
LocalNews D Greater Palm Beaches and Treasure Coast 
Palm Beach sex offender's secret plea deal: 
Possible co-conspirators not charged, presses 
victims to settle civil suits 
By SUSAN SPENCER-WENDEL 
Palm Beach Post Staff Writer 
Friday, September 18, 2009 
WEST PALM BEACH — Billionaire financier sex offender Jeffrey Epstein's secret non-prosecution agreement he 
struck with federal prosecutors was unsealed Friday, offering the first public look at the deal Epstein's high-powered 
legal counsel brokered on his behalf. 
According the agreement, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Attorney's Office investigated Epstein 
for various federal crimes, including prostitution, some punishable by a minimum of 10 years up to life in prison 
But federal prosecutors backed down and agreed to recall grand jury subpoeanas, if Epstein pleaded guilty to 
prostitution-related felonies in state court, which he ultimately did. He received an 18-month jail sentence, of which 
he served 13. 
A former federal prosecutor of 15 years, Mark Johnson of Stuart, said the disparity in the potential sentences was 
unusual. 
The United States Attorney's Office also agreed not to charge any of Epstein's possible co-conspirators - Sarah 
Kellen, Adriana Ross, Lesley Groff and Nadia Marcinkova. 
The agreement was negotiated in part by New York heavyweight criminal defense attorney Gerald Lefcourt. 
On its first draft in September 2007, it required that Epstein pay an attorney - tapped by the U.S. Attorney's Office 
and approved by Epstein - to represent some of the victims in civil suits they had filed against Epstein. That 
attorney is prominent Miami lawyer Bob Josefsberg. 
Former prosecutor Johnson said he has never seen a provision like that before. 
But an addendum to the agreement signed the following month struck Epstein's duty to pay Josefsberg if he and the 
victims did not accept a settlement and instead pursued litigation. 
The agreement, signed by Assistant U.S. Attorney Maria Villafana, does not expressly state whether any victims 
were contacted or consulted before the deal was made. 
Attorney Brad Edwards of Fort Lauderdale, who represents three of the young women, believes that none of the 
between 30 and 40 woman identified as victims in the federal investigation were told of the deal. Edwards said his 
clients were still receiving letters in the mail months afterwards saying the U.S. Attorney's Office assuring them 
Epstein would be prosecuted. 
"Never consulting the victims is probably the most outrageous aspect of it..." Edwards said. "It taught them that 
someone with money can buy his way out of anything. It's outrageous and embarrassing for United States 
Attorney's Office and the State Attorneys Office." 
Epstein now faces many civil lawsuits filed by the women, who are represented by a variety attorneys. In many, the 
facts alleged are the same: that Epstein had a predilection for teenage girls, identified poor, vulnerable ones and 
lured them to his home via other young women. The teens describe ascending a staircase lined with nude 
photographs of young girls and to the spa room where Epstein would appear in a small towel. 
Former Circuit Judge Bill Berger, who represents one of the victims, and The Palm Beach Post sought the 
unsealing of the agreement. Berger refers to it as a "sweetheart deal." 
"Why was it so important for the government to make this deal?" Berger asked rhetorically. "We have not yet had 
honest explanation by any public official as to why it was made .. and why the victim's were sold down the river." 
Former federal prosecutor Ryon McCabe described the agreement as "very unorthodox." Such agreements, he said, 
are usually reserved for corporations, not individuals. 
http://www.palmbeachpost.com/ pbcwest/content/local_news/epaper/2009/09/18/0918epstein.html 
SEARCH 
® Site 0 Web Web Search by YAHOO! 
Obarna Launches Mortgage Relief Plan 
If you owe  less than S720 000 on .._„•-c,,Jr 
_ mortgage,you_probably c Jalify for the  
President's Making Home Affordable  
Program. With rates lower than they've ever  
been, there has never been a better time to  
refinance. If you am a homethivner and you  
haven't looked into refinancing recently, you 
may be surprised at how much you can save. 
Select Your Age: 
33 
_Calculate New House Pavment, 
COLUMNISTS AND BLOGGERS 
ktir 1 
FRANK CERABINO 
Read Frank's latest columns 
and follow him on Twitter. 
Read more 
HOT CELEBRITY NEWS 
Get the latest on South Florida 
celebrities, billionaires, 
politicos, more. Page2Live 
GEORGE BENNETT 
Read Post politics columnist 
George Bennett's latest 
articles. Read more 
MOST POPULAR HEADLINES COMMENTS  
Fatal shooting in Delray Beach draws crowd of 100 
onlookers 
Lake Worth mayor says The Cottage complaints use 
'gay card' against city manager 
West Palm Beach mayor Firefighter layoffs likely 
Narcy Novack charged in 2009 Fort Lauderdale killing 
of her mother-in-law 
Boynton Police warn of new twist on ATM identity fraud 
FOLLOW THE POST ON TWITTER 
SIGN UP FOR MOBILE TEXT ALERTS 
lig The Palm Beach Post on Facebook 
Like 
16,985 people like The Palm Beach Post. 
Page 1 of 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013416 
Local News: West Palm Beach, Palm Beach County, Martin & St. Lucie Counties I The Palm Beach Post 
4/6/11 1:3 8 PM 
"It's very, very rare. I've never seen or heard of the procedure that was set up here." said McCabe, who has no 
involvement in any Epstein litigation and is now a securities litigation attorney. 
"He's essentially avoiding federal prosecution because he can afford to pay that many lawyers to help those victims 
review their cases.... If a person has no money he couldn't be able to strike a deal like this and avoid federal 
prosecution." 
The back-room deal with federal prosecutors all the more interesting in light of the legal heavyweights who have 
worked for Epstein, including Harvard professor Alan Dershowitz and Kenneth Starr of Clinton impeachment fame. 
Lefcourt is a past president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. 
Epstein's local defense attorney, Jack Goldberger, issued a statement Friday saying he had fought the release of 
the sealed agreement to protect the third parties named there. "Mr. Epstein has fully abided by all of its terms and 
conditions. He is looking forward to putting this difficult period in his life behind him. He is continuing his long 
standing history of science philanthropy..." 
Epstein ended up avoiding federal charges, and pleaded guilty in state court to felony solicitation of prostitution and 
procuring a person under the age of 18 for prostitution. In July 2008, he was sentenced to 18 months in jail, and 
later allowed out up to six days a week on work release. 
Epstein left the jail in late July 2009 after serving not quite 13 months of the sentence, having earned gain time for 
good behavior. 
Palm Beach Police began investigating the "international moneyman of mystery," as the New York magazine 
dubbed him, after they received a complaint from a relative of a 14-year-old girl who had given Epstein a naked 
massage at his home on the Intracoastal Waterway. 
Police sought and found in poor neighborhoods a variety of tall, thin, model-like young women, who told stories of 
begin recruiting, then going to Epstein's home and massaging and stimulating him. They walked away with between 
$200 and $1,000. 
The investigation triggered tensions between police and prosecutors, with then-Chief Michael Reiter saying in a 
May 2006 letter to then-State Attorney Barry Krischer that the chief prosecutor should disqualify himself. 
"I continue to find your office's treatment of these cases highly unusual," Reiter wrote. He then asked for and got 
the federal investigation that ended in the sealed deal. 
"The Jeffrey Epstein matter was an experience of what a many-million-dollar defense can accomplish," Reiter told 
the Palm Beach Daily News upon his retirement. 
http://www.palmbeachpost.com/pbcwest/content/local_news/epaper/2009/09/18/0918epstein.html 
Rick 
Heidy Vero 
Audrey 
Gabriel 
Debra Robin 
• 
Jeffrey Katie Jodie 
Recent Activity 
Login 
You need to be logged into Facebook to 
see your friends activity 
Cerabino: Florida House GOP's 'uterus' 
ban: A free-speech battle is born 
1,518 people shared this. 
LIForeclosure crisis: Fed-up judges crack 
down disorder in the courts 
207 people shared this. 
Facebook social plug in 
POSTPIX » Latest news photos 
MAGES OF WAR in Iraq Massive earthquake and 
and Afghanistan tsunami devastate Japan 
Jeri Muoio Sworn in as Severe weather in Central, 
Mayor South Florida 
IDo Your Feet Hurt?  
SELBY SHOES 
561-969-9369 
We'Ll Put Wow! Into Your Windows 
IN THE SHADE INC 
772-223-1212 
Free Hearing Test!  
BELTONE 
561-948-3049 
Gourmet Meat in Delray  
MARIO'S MEATS 
561-499-7019 
Do Your Feet Hurt?  
SELBY SHOES 
561-969-9369 
Historic Archive 
(1897 - 1988) 
Search historic editions of The Palm Beach 
Post, Palm Beach Daily News, Miami News and 
more. It's free! 
Page 2 of 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013417 
Local News: West Palm Beach, Palm Beach County, Martin & St. Lucie Counties I The Palm Beach Post 
4/6/11 1:38 PM 
SEARCH 
UTOG: Hottest Oil Stock "Weird Fruit Burns Fat" 
Fracking tech to unlock vast treasure of 7,000- Reporter Drops 32 Pounds in 28 Days with 
acre This Strange 
www.AmericanEnergyReportcom www.5NewsTV.com 
Get this search box for your site. 
Mortgage Rates Hit 2.99% 
If you owe under $729k you probably qualify for 
Obama's 
www.LowerMyBills.com 
Ads by Yahoo! 
Stay on top of the storms with our new interactive live radar — the radar you control 
TELL US WHAT YOU THINK OR SEND US A TIP 	SECTIONS 	MARKETPLACE 	AFFILIATED SITES 
Please use this box to submit general site 	Local News 	Real Estate Florida Home 	GalleryPalmBeach.com 
feedback, technical problems or news tips. Thank 	Money 	Local Businesses 	HistoricPalmBeach.com 
you. 	Sports 	Advertise in The Post 	PalmBeachDailyNews.com 
Weather Opinion 	Advertise on PalmBeachPost.com 	pbgametime.com pbpulse.com 
Traffic 	SERVICES 	Page2Live.com 
Special reports 	DoGood - Local non-profits 
Post on Politics 	Customer Care 
Entertainment pbpulse.com 	Home Delivery 	ON THE GO 
Treasure Coast Talk 	Local business directory 
Blogs 	E-mail Newsletters 
Your e-mail address (will not be shared) 
Twitter 	ARCHIVES 	RSS Feeds 
Obituaries Living 	Front page PDFs Historic Archives 	Mobile Services Reprints/licensing 
( SEND NOW 
Photos - PostPix 
Videos 
Copyright ©2011 The Palm Beach Post. All rights reserved. By using PalmBeachPost.com, you accept the terms of our visitor agreement Please read it. 
Contact PalmBeachPost.com I Privacy Policy I About our ads 
Mall ENABLED 
coreEip 
http://www.palmbeachpost.com/pbcwest/content/local_news/epaper/2009/09/18/0918epstein.html 
Page 3 of 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013418 
Local News: West Palm Beach, Palm Beach County, Martin & St. Lucie Counties I The Palm Beach Post 4/6/11 1:50 PM 
NEWS 
BRAdviAN_ MOTORCARS  
m nrAcir Porsche 
BRAMAN DIFFERENCE CillefLA I 
EXPERIENCE THE 
Mini 
BMW Audi 
Subscribe Now Renew 
E-POST I JOBS I AUTOS I REAL ESTATE I CLASSIFIEDS I PLACE AN AD 
I — I 
WEATHER 
I SPORTS I 
MONEY I OBITUARIES I OPINION I LIVING I ENTERTAINMENT I PHOTOS I VIDEOS I 
LocalNews _ _ Greater Palm Beaches and Treasure Coast 
Judge: Palm Beach sex offender Jeffrey Epstein 
agreement to remain sealed 
By MICHELE DARGAN 
Palm Beach Daily News Staff Writer 
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 
A federal judge has ruled that a non-prosecution document under which the government agreed not to pursue 
federal charges against sex offender Jeffrey Epstein will remain under seal - at least for now. 
The U.S. Attorney's Office and Epstein's lawyers reached the agreement before Epstein pleaded guilty to state 
felony charges, and the document is under seal in Epstein's state criminal file. 
Representing two of Epstein's victims, attorney Brad Edwards asked to have the document unsealed as part of his 
federal lawsuit against the Manhattan money manager. Although Edwards and his victims have seen the 
agreement, Edwards says in his pleadings that the government has "inaccurately described the agreement ... 
creating a false impression that the agreement protects the victims." 
U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra ruled that the claims, even if true, haven't damaged Edwards' case. 
"If and when such alleged mischaracterizations become relevant to an issue to be decided by the court, the parties 
will be given the opportunity to advance their positions and the court will resolve the issue," he wrote. "If disclosure 
of the agreement will be required for the court to resolve this issue, appropriate disclosure will be ordered." 
Seeking to keep the agreement sealed, Assistant U.S. Attorney Dexter Lee argued that the agreement is not part of 
any case before Marra. 
"The non-prosecution agreement has never been filed under seal in federal court," he wrote. 
He also denied that the agreement has been inaccurately described. 
Marra sided with Lee on the argument that the agreement was not filed in federal court "under seal or otherwise." 
On Aug. 14, Marra ruled that the non-prosecution agreement would be unsealed for Edwards and any of the victims 
who want to see it. But the ruling bars Edwards and anyone else who sees the document from disclosing the terms 
to anyone else. 
In his motion to unseal, Edwards said he wants to be able to discuss the terms of the agreement with other victims 
and their attorneys as well as with other victims' rights groups such as the National Alliance of Victims' Rights 
Attorneys. 
The desire to discuss the agreement with third parties is not justification for unsealing the document, Marra ruled. 
"If a specific tangible need arises in a civil case relief should be sought in that case," he wrote. 
Epstein, 56, is serving 18 months in jail for soliciting prostitution and procuring a minor for prostitution. 
Under the agreement, federal prosecutors will defer their decision on whether to prosecute Epstein on federal 
charges until 90 days after Epstein completes all requirements of his state sentence. 
If he abides by all court conditions and restrictions, the federal case would be dropped. 
In addition to the state criminal case, there are nine federal and seven state lawsuits pending against Epstein. 
All contain similar allegations: The Manhattan money manager, through his employees and assistants, brought 
minor girls to his Palm Beach home at 358 El Brillo Way for erotic massages and sometimes sex. 
(3 Site 0 Web 
SEARCH 
Web Search by YAHOO! 
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 
SPECIALIST 
Busy Physical Therapy office 
seeks FULL TIME AR Collection 
person to handle txttient accounts. 
Clit'k 
Apply! 
EXPERIENCE PREFERRED 
COLUMNISTS AND BLOGGERS 
111 
MOST POPULAR 
FRANK CERABINO 
Read Frank's latest columns 
and follow him on Twitter. 
Read more 
HOT CELEBRITY NEWS 
Get the latest on South Florida 
celebrities, billionaires, 
politicos, more. Page2L ive 
GEORGE BENNETT 
Read Post politics columnist 
George Bennett's latest 
articles. Read more 
HEADLINES COMMENTS 
Fatal shooting in Delray Beach draws crowd of 100 
onlookers 
Lake Worth mayor says The Cottage complaints use 
'gay card' against city manager 
Narcy Novack charged in 2009 Fort Lauderdale killing 
of her mother-in-law 
West Palm Beach mayor: Firefighter layoffs likely 
Boynton Police warn of new twist on ATM identity fraud 
FOLLOW THE POST ON TWITTER 
SIGN UP FOR MOBILE TEXT ALERTS 
The Palm Beach Post on Facebook 
Like 
16,987 people like The Palm Beach Post. 
INMAN 
Jodie Heidy Bianca Robin Audrey 
Katie 
Gabriel Vero Yelena Debra 
http://www.palmbeachpost.com/localnews/content/local_news/epaper/2009/02/17/0217epstein.html 
Page 1 of 2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013419 
Local News: West Palm Beach, Palm Beach County, Martin & St. Lucie Counties I The Palm Beach Post 4/6/11 1:50 PM 
Recent Activity 
gin 
You need to be logged into Facebook to 
see your friends activity 
Cerabino: Florida House GOP's 'uterus' 
ban: A free-speech battle is born 
1,524 people shared this. 
Irj Foreclosure crisis: Fed-up judges crack 
down disorder in the courts 
207 people shared this. 
11 Facebook social plugin 
POSTPIX » Latest news photos 
MAGES OF WAR in Iraq Massive earthquake and 
and Afghanistan tsunami devastate Japan 
Jeri Muoio Sworn in as Severe weather in Central, 
Mayor South Florida 
FEATURED MOTORCYCLES 
1997 Harley Davidson Road King 941-769-
9000 
HD Road King '97, 48K... 
View All Featured Motorcycles 
Historic Archive 
(1897-1988) 
Search historic editions of The Palm Beach 
Post, Palm Beach Daily News, Miami News and 
more. It's free! 
1 SEARCH 
Get this search box for your site. 
"Weird Fruit Burns Fat" US Oil Best Kept Secret? BREAKING NEWS:$25 Car Ins 
Reporter Drops 32 Pounds in 28 Days with Not for long. Similar stocks trade at $30-$60. Do Not Buy Car Insurance until you see this 
This Strange www.AmericanEnergyReport.com shocking 
www.5NewsTV.com www.News7BreakingNews.com 
Ads by Yahoo! 
Stay on top of the storms with our new interactive live radar - the radar you control 
http://www.palmbeachpost.com/localnews/content/local_news/epaper/2009/02/17/0217epstein.html Page 2 of 2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013420 
Page 1 
• 
LexisNexis' 
7 of 11 DOCUMENTS 
Copyright 2009 ProQuest Information and Learning 
All Rights Reserved 
ProQuest SuperText 
Copyright 2009 Palm Beach Post 
Palm B each Daily News 
June 25, 2009 Thursday 
Final Edition 
SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A.1 
LENGTH: 557 words 
HEADLINE: JUDGE TO RULE ON SEALED PLEA-DEAL PAPERS TODAY 
BYLINE: MICHELE DARGAN, MICHELE DARGAN, Daily News Staff Writer 
BODY: 
A circuit judge will decide today whether the public will be privy to the federal government's non-prosecution deal 
with Jeffrey Epstein, which was sealed when the convicted sex offender pleaded guilty in June 2008 to two felony 
counts. 
Epstein, of Palm Beach, will be released from the Palm Beach County Stockade July 22, after serving less than 13 
months of his 18- month sentence for procuring a minor for prostitution and solicitation of prostitution. 
Teri Barbera, spokeswoman for the Palm Beach County Sheriffs Office, confirmed his release date Tuesday. 
Epstein's projected release date had been Sept. 24, but gain time -- which includes his participation in a 
work-release program -- moves the date up to July 22, Barbera said. 
Epstein, 56, has been in the work-release program since Oct. 10, in which he is allowed out of the stockade six days 
a week, from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., to go to his West Palm Beach office, the Florida Science Foundation, monitored by an 
ankle bracelet and accompanied by a deputy. 
As part of Epstein's state plea agreement, the U.S. Attorneys Office agreed not to prosecute Epstein on federal 
charges as long as he fulfills all requirements of his sentence and probation. The federal non-prosecution agreement has 
been under seal in state court. 
Epstein's attorney Jack Goldberger filed court papers asking that the documents stay sealed for the following rea-
sons: "to prevent a serious imminent threat to the fair, impartial and orderly administration of justice; to protect a com-
pelling government interest; to avoid substantial injury to innocent third parties and to avoid substantial injury to a party 
by disclosure of matters protected by a common law and privacy right, not generally inherent in these specific type of 
proceedings, sought to be closed." 
Fort Lauderdale-based attorney Brad Edwards represents three Epstein victims and has asked Circuit Judge Jeffrey 
Colbath to unseal the federal agreement to the public. An attorney for The Palm Beach Post also has asked that the rec-
ords be unsealed. 
Edwards and his clients have seen the agreement after a federal judge ruled that they are allowed to see it. But that 
ruling bars Edwards and anyone else who sees the document from disclosing the terms to anyone else. 
Edwards said he wants to use that document "in the deposition of various material witnesses" relative to his cases. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013421 
Page 2 
JUDGE TO RULE ON SEALED PLEA-DEAL PAPERS TODAY Palm Beach Daily News June 25, 2009 Thursday 
Radaronline.com has reported that Epstein has "secretly been helping the feds unravel a Ponzi scheme" related to 
the June 2008 indictment of two former managers of Bear Stearns Mortgage Investment Fund. 
Epstein's rep, Howard Rubenstein, confirmed last year that Epstein is "Major Investor No. 1" in the indictment, 
which says he lost about $57 million. 
Goldberger could not be reached for comment. 
The Manhattan money manager has been incarcerated since June 30, when he pleaded guilty to the two felony 
counts. As part of the plea agreement, Epstein must serve one year of house arrest after his release and register as a life-
long sex offender. 
In addition to the criminal case, there are more than a dozen civil lawsuits -- both state and federal -- pending 
against Epstein. All contain similar allegations: Epstein, through his employees and assistants, brought minor girls to his 
Palm Beach home on El Brillo Way for erotic massages and sometimes sex. 
mdargan@pbdailynews.com 
GRAPHIC: Caption: Epstein To be released from jail July 22. 
LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013422 
Heiress quizzed in sex suits - NYPOST.com 
4/6/1 1 1:5 1 PM 
1lAt 51 0 Today's Paper Login Register Classifieds E Archives Subscribe 
NEW YORK POST 
Last Updated:Wed., Apr. 6 
News 
2011, 01:45pm 
BERGDORF GUDDMAN 
Derek Jeter Carmelo Anthony Jay-Z Donald Trump 
Phrase-y Charlie 
He wants to leave his mark --
on your wallet. Warlock 
wannabe... 
NYC Local Business Opinion 
Six 
• Padma jabs 
. John's ex wastes no 
time 
. Lots of attention 
Home Cindy Adams Celeb Photos PopWrap Fashion Delonas Cartoon 
Story 
Heiress 
quizzed in sex 
suits 
Last Updated: 3:35 AM, October 12, 2009 
Posted: 12:55 AM, October 12, 2009 
Comments: 14 
Like 
Be the first of your friends to like this. 
0 
More Oa Print 
Ghislaine Maxwell, the British brunette whose father once 
owned the Daily News, has been slapped with a subpoena in 
suits brought by 24 underage girls against her old friend, 
billionaire Jeffrey Epstein. 
Maxwell -- whose press-lord father, Robert Maxwell, died in 
1991 after falling into the Atlantic off his yacht, the Lady 
Ghislaine -- was served with a subpoena on Sept. 22 at 6:45 
p.m. as she was leaving the Clinton Global Initiatives 
Conference at the Sheraton Hotel. 
Florida lawyer Brad Edwards, who represents three of the 
"Jane Does" who are suing Epstein, told Page Six that 
Maxwell would be questioned over her knowledge of how 
Epstein procured many of the girls. 
Epstein is accused in the civil complaints of luring underage 
girls to his mansion in Palm Beach to give him massages, 
during which he allegedly engaged them in sexual activity and 
paid them hundreds of dollars each. A grand jury indicted 
Epstein on a charge of felony solicitation of prostitution. 
Epstein, who pleaded guilty and did 12 months in prison, was 
deposed last week in the offices of his lawyer, Jack 
Goldberger. 
Goldberger wouldn't comment, but a friend of Epstein said, 
"These [people bringing the complaint] are the lowest of the 
lows in terms of ambulance-chasing lawyers." The trials are 
scheduled to start in February. 
Nadia Marcinkova, who has been described as Epstein's 
lesbian sex slave and who visited him behind bars 67 times, 
has also been served with a subpoena. 
Epstein's brother, Mark Epstein, who has a real-estate 
holding company in New York, has already been deposed 
about a building he owns, 301 E. 66th St. "Jeffrey rents 
several apartments there where he keeps his girls, alleged 
models for the MC2 agency he owns," Edwards said. "But 
Mark acts like he doesn't even know his brother. He was 
extremely angry and rude and cursed me out." 
http://www.nypost.com/p/pagesix/item_0137QFDOUnUXhNff7btM0pL 
Sports 
a a. 
LAN VIN 
SHOP NOW 
WEEKLY AD PHOTOS VIDEOS BLOGS 
Poison pen 
One, two, three flush. Asked 
to protect a gem by CC 
Sabathia,... 
Teams — High Schools E Scores 
Page Six Magazine 
Entertainment 
Kitchen's hot! 
On a recent Saturday evening, 
a small army of servers 
outfitted... 
TV Movies Events Travel 
Emily Smith 
with Ian Mohr, Stephanie Smith and 
Tara Palmed 
Cindy Adarr-
• Bravo stars snicker at 
Padma 
• John's ex wastes no 
time 
• Lots of attention 
• Italian approach 
• 'Kennedys' hunt 
• Mariah Carey shows off 
pregnant belly 
• Private politics 
• Quick to buy 
• Madge rips 'false' stories 
• Easy charmer 
• Amare is selling his 
Miami duplex 
• Parking struggle 
• We hear 
• Sightings 
First Look: D-Trix judges 
'ABDC' 
If you know him from "So 
You Think You Can Dance" 
season three or "America's 
Best Dance... 
Kelly Clarkson's greatest 
hits sound greater than 
ever 
The Clarkson colors run 
deep here at PopWrap, so 
View Singles in New York 
VIEW PHOTOS OF: 
Men 
• 
!‘lEAIR ZIP: 
nnatch.corri 
VIEW PHOTOS 
seeking1178, age 36 
Seeking: women 24-35 
Interests: Camping, 
Cooking, Dining out., 
Wine tasting 
Lj See More Like Him 
aaroniI.255, age 27 
Seeking: women 23-33 
Interests: Dining out 
Exploring new areas. 
[..lusic and concerts 
See More Like Him 
dar5508, age 31 
Seeking: women 23-35 
Interests: Nightclubs/ 
Dancing, Playing sports, 
Traveli Sightseeing 
See More Like Him 
Page 1 of 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013423 
Heiress quizzed in sex suits - NYPOST.com 
Sponsored Links Buy a Link Here 
Scholarships for Moms 
Grant Funding May Be Available to Those Who 
Qualify! 
SeeCollegeDegrees.com/Grant 
Mom Shares $3 Wrinkle Tip 
Dermatologists HATE this 1 simple tip that erases 
wrinkles fast 
WeeklyInform.com 
SHOCKING: 52 Samsung HDTV for $74.07 
TODAY ONLY: Auction site to clear out 1,000 52 
Samsung HDTVs for $74.07! 
Consumer-Weekly.net/SmartShopping 
Like Be the first of your friends to like this. 
0 
Comments 
04 
More 46 Print 
a comment... 
0 
Facebook social plugin 
Comment 
NYPOST Comments (1o) 
Jimscol6 
03/28/2011 9:26 AM 
No Chance I'm going to believe any of this. "Jane Does" seems 
to be the operative phrase in all of this. Do a google search for 
"Ghislaine Maxwell Vanity Fair" you'll find a relatively different, 
much more founded story there. 
Pedro Gonzalez 
10/12/2009 8:59 PM 
...hatinTHEHATERS....You have just shown what kind of 
hypocrites use the Race Card...... 
Report 
Report 
shodan Report 
10/12/2009 7:43 PM 
hatinTheHaters: Wow, blaming the underages girls he molested? 
Word to the wise for the other posters here. Keep your kids 
away from "hatinTheHaters". 
Kramden Report 
10/12/2009 3:10 PM 
Jeffrey Cumstein? 
Yankee Doodle Dandy Report 
10/12/2009 11:50 AM 
The New York Post NEVER misses an opportunity to tweak the 
nose of its cross-town rival, The New York Daily News! 
Hey, if you CAN'T bash 'em, TRASH 'em!!! 
jcmrtn Report 
10/12/2009 11:15 AM 
But Hollywood types say raping and drugging 13 year olds isn't 
really a crime anymore. Jeffrey and Roman should be released 
and given an apology. How dare we have laws to protect 
children. Don't they realize these men are FAMOUS? 
palebluehalo Report 
10/12/2009 7:05 AM 
c'mon, who hasn't banged a few underage models? 
Pedro Gonzalez 
10/12/2009 5:07 AM 
...Ghislaine Maxwell's mistake was to be at the Clinton Global 
http://www.nypost.com/p/pagesix/item_OB7OFDOUnUXhNff7btM0pL 
Report 
4/6/11 1:51 PM 
Kelly's long-teased appearance on today's... 
This 'When Harry Met 
Sally' sequel sucks 
Although I haven't seen it in quite a number of years, I suspect that "When Harry 
Met... 
'30' to 'Rock' no more 
Alec Baldwin is going from 
"Rock" to "Rock" as the "30 
Rock" star preps for his role in an... 
Back to Bayside 
More in Videos 
Good grief, Jennifer 	News 	Gossip 	Sports 	Weird News Lifestyle 
Garner is such a dork 
Jennifer Garner may have a body, life and closet to kill for, but every time she does... 
Watch two minutes from 
'Workaholics' 
Comedy Central is very hit and miss with their original programming -- for every 
"South... 
More in PopWrap 
Sponsored Links 
53yr Old Mom Looks 30! 
We Expose the $4 Trick to 
ERASE Wrinkles. Her 
Results will Shock You! 
www.vanityreports.com/... 
Obama Urges 
Homeowners to 
Refinance 
If you owe under $729k, you 
probably qualify for... 
www.SeeRefinanceRates.... 
Hot Stock Pick - GTSO 
New Rare Earth Exporter in 
Mongolia Prepares to Ship 
New Ore Next Mont 
www.RareEarthExporters... 
Buy a link here 
NEW YORK POST 
***** 
"The Bee% 
iPad-App 
Avellable on the 
L.J App Store 
FOLLOW THII 
NEW Y01110 POST 
twikker, 
Page 2 of 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013424 
Heiress quizzed in sex suits - NYPOST.com 4/6/11 1:51 PM 
Initiative Conference, a tax dodge for the rich and a front for the 
sexual deviants. The place was no doubt under surveillance by 
the IRS and the FBI Pedophile unit. 
1 2 Next* Last* 
You must be logged in to leave comments. Login i Register 
POST SECTIONS 
News: Business I Opinion I Columnists I Local News 
Sports: Columnists I Scores I Fantasy 
PageSix: Celeb Photos I POPWRAP I Page Six Magazine 
Entertainment: TV I Movies I Music 
Classifieds: Rentals I Jobs I Cars I Real Estate I NY Apartments 
Multimedia: Photos I Video 
Specials: Contests/Sweepstakes 
NEW YORK POST 
CUSTOMER CARE SUBSCRIBE 
Contact Us Home Delivery 
FAQ iPad 
Today's Paper Daily Newsletter 
Archives iPhone 
Covers E-Edition 
Back Issues Mobile 
Reprints RSS 
Sitemap 
Help 
Can't find what you're looking for? Try searching: 
ADVERTISING/PARTNERS 
Media Kit 
Parade Magazine 
Coupons 
NEW YORK POST is a registered trademark of NYP Holdings, Inc. 
NYPOST.COM, NYPOSTONLINE.COM, and NEWYORKPOST.COM are trademarks of NYP Holdings, Inc. 
Copyright 2011 NYP Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy I Terms of Use 
http://www.nypost.com/p/pagesix/item_0137QFDOUnUXhNff7btM0pL 
Page 3 of 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013425 
Page 1 
• 
LexisNexis' 
9 of 13 DOCUMENTS 
Copyright 2009 Sun-Sentinel Company 
All Rights Reserved 
Sun-Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Florida) 
June 15, 2009 Monday 
Palm Beach Edition 
SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B 
LENGTH: 348 words 
HEADLINE: HEARING SET TO CONSIDER SECRECY OF PLEA BARGAIN 
BYLINE: Susan Spencer-Wendell The Palm Beach Post 
BODY: 
A Palm Beach Circuit Court judge will not immediately unseal a deal that wealthy Palm Beach money manager 
Jeffrey Epstein made with federal prosecutors to avoid charges. 
Circuit Judge Jeff Colbath acknowledged, though, at a hearing last week that Epstein's deal was not sealed in ac-
cordance with state and local court rules. 
"I don't see where any of the procedures were ever followed to begin with," Colbath said. 
Colbath also set a full hearing on the matter for June 25. 
Attorneys for young women now suing Epstein, together with The Palm Beach Post, are asking Colbath to unseal 
the deal that Epstein made with federal prosecutors. 
"Ifs a secret agreement, a secret sweetheart agreement," said former Circuit Judge Bill Berger, who represents 
some of the women. "Everybody was in on this deal except the victims and the public. The public should be outraged it 
has gone as far as it has." 
Brad Edwards, a second attorney representing the women, has seen the sealed deal after a federal judge allowed 
him and his clients to view it, but would not discuss its contents. 
Edwards would say only that the women were "outraged" that it had been negotiated behind their backs. 
A reporter asked Edwards whether he thought Epstein received special treatment by federal prosecutors. 
"Are you kidding? Its transparent. Certainly, no one else gets treated like that," Edwards said. 
Epstein, 56, a reported money manager of billionaires, is serving an 18-month sentence in the Palm Beach County 
Stockade after pleading guilty almost a year ago in state court to felony solicitation of prostitution and procuring teen-
agers for prostitution. Epstein is allowed out, though, each day from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., a Sheriffs Office spokesman 
said. 
Displeased with the way the State Attorneys Office handled the case, Palm Beach police forwarded information to 
the FBI. 
INFORMATIONAL BOX: 
Young women have sued 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013426 
Page 2 
HEARING SET TO CONSIDER SECRECY OF PLEA BARGAIN Sun-Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Florida) June 15, 
2009 Monday 
Money manager Jeffrey Epstein made a deal and is serving an 18-month sentence in jail. Attorneys for young 
women suing Epstein are asking a judge to unseal the deal that Epstein made with federal prosecutors. 
NOTES: < Informational box at end of text. {TOPIC} Prostitution solicitation case 
LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013427 
Page 1 
• 
LexisNexis' 
3 of 3 DOCUMENTS 
Copyright 2009 ProQuest Information and Learning 
All Rights Reserved 
ProQuest SuperText 
Copyright 2009 Palm Beach Post 
Palm Beach Daily News 
June 11, 2009 Thursday 
Final Edition 
SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A.1 
LENGTH: 561 words 
HEADLINE: EPSTEIN PLEA DEAL TO REMAIN SEALED FOR NOW 
BYLINE: DAVID ROGERS, DAVID ROGERS, Daily News Staff Writer 
BODY: 
The plea deal that part-time Palm Beacher Jeffrey Epstein agreed to several months ago to avoid federal charges 
will remain sealed for the time being. 
Lawyers for The Palm Beach Post and a woman who claimed Epstein solicited and procured her for sex at his El 
Brillo Way home while she was underage asked Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Jeffrey Colbath Wednesday morning 
to unseal the plea documents immediately. 
Instead, Colbath decided to leave the documents sealed and give Jack Goldberger, the attorney representing Ep-
stein, until 1 p.m. Friday to file papers showing why the records should remain out of public view. 
Colbath agreed to let the Post and "E.W." have standing in the case and set a hearing on whether the documents 
should be unsealed for 1:30 p.m. June 25. 
Epstein agreed in September 2007 to plead to state charges to avoid federal prosecution, Goldberger told County 
Judge Deborah Pucillo at Epstein's plea conference last year. 
The sealing of the records in question was said to be a "significant inducement" for Epstein, who is serving 18 
months in the Palm Beach County Stockade -- with daytime release -- and is facing several civil lawsuits in state and 
federal courts by more than a dozen alleged victims. 
Colbath said, "I don't see where any of the proper procedures to seal the documents were ever followed ..." but that 
he would give Epstein's legal team the ability to "jump through the hoops to seal the documents if they are entitled in 
fact to be sealed." 
The sealing of court documents in Florida is unusual and lawyers typically have to prove a significant reason for it, 
such as protecting trade secrets or a compelling government interest. 
Goldberger said after the hearing there is no rush to unseal the plea deal. 
"I think the records clearly need to be sealed and continue to be sealed but I think the ruling by Judge Colbath was a 
very well- reasoned practical decision," Goldberger said. "He is not getting special treatment." 
Brad Edwards, of the law firm of Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler of Fort Lauderdale, said the plea deal should be a 
public record. His firm represents the woman, now 20, who was identified only as E.W. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013428 
Page 2 
EPSTEIN PLEA DEAL TO REMAIN SEALED FOR NOW Palm Beach Daily News June 11, 2009 Thursday 
Whether procedure was followed is not the issue, he said. 
"Certainly it should be unsealed regardless. I mean this is a very unusual circumstance where a document like this 
would be sealed," Edwards said. "None of the other criminal defendants in there (Judge Colbath's courtroom) had their 
plea bargains, plea agreements, their non-prosecution agreements, sealed." 
Edwards said his firm represents three women who claim they were procured for sex with Epstein when they were 
underage. The three are outraged that the document is under wraps, Edwards said. 
Deanna Shullman, the attorney representing the Post, said the public and the press have a constitutional right of ac-
cess to public records in Florida. 
"Fortunately, the status quo is openness. So I think the judge has the idea that the initial closure was done without 
any adherence to those procedures but was inclined to give Mr. Epstein's lawyers additional time to prove that they 
should be sealed in accordance with these procedures," Shullman said. 
Its a little disappointing in that we would have liked to see the judge unseal the record because that's what should 
be the status quo in a situation like this, Shullman said. 
drogers 
@pbdailynews. com 
LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013429 
Page 1 
0 ,  LexisNexis' 
1 of 11 DOCUMENTS 
Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd. 
All Rights Reserved 
The Evening Standard (London) 
December 24, 2009 Thursday 
LENGTH: 824 words 
HEADLINE: CITY SPY 
BODY: 
EXPECT more media firms to announce plans to charge for content online in early 2010. City Spy hears that busi-
ness-to-business publisher United Business Media is the latest outfit which is thinking of ramping up its subscription 
model. Property Week and Building are among the titles which recently started asking users to register their details to 
keep reading stories, which is seen as a possible precursor to charging. 
BUSINESSES TIPPED TO COME A CROPPER 
AMID all the contradictory forecasts for recovery or double-dip recession in 2010, what do the insolvency practi-
tioners say? City Spy's mole in the bean-counting world says the last quarter of 2009 was surprisingly quiet as the 
economy stabilised but they are not optimistic about the new year: "We reckon there's going to be a rush of insolvencies 
in the second quarter, after the end of the financial year." The next quarterly rent review is due tomorrow, Christmas 
Day, then again at the end of March. But given the number of "seasonal sales" that started on the High Street at least a 
week before Christmas, it would be no surprise to see some retailers come a cropper sooner... 
EPSTEIN PILOT TAKES TO THE ROAD 
FURTHER news reaches City Spy of former Bear Stearns trader, Prince Andrew's shooting companion and con-
victed sex offender, Jeffrey Epstein. 
The ex-Wall Street star served 13 months in jail on criminal charges of soliciting prostitution and procuring a minor 
for prostitution and he now faces civil claims from young women accusing him of having unlawful sex with them. This 
week, City Spy recounted how Epstein had transferred the title deeds of his prized 2003 Ferrari 575M Maranello to his 
private pilot Larry Visoki, prior to the car going on sale for $159,000 (£99,000) (possibly to help Epstein pay his legal 
bills). It turns out, the same Visoki was deposed last week by Bradley Edwards, an attorney for three of the women su-
ing Epstein. Questioned by Edwards about plane passengers who might have witnessed Epstein in the company of 
young girls, Visoki admitted Bill Clinton, Prince Andrew, former Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak, former Colombian 
president Andres Pastrana Arango, Obama economic adviser Lawrence Summers, billionaire Ron Burkle, and actors 
Kevin Spacey and Chris Tucker had been on board the plane while young girls were present. Fortuitously for Epstein, 
however, Ferrari-selling Visoki swore on oath that he never suspected his boss of having sex with them. 
Of course not, Larry. Now drive off into the sunset. 
More on Prince Andrew, our special representative for international trade and investment. The European Parliament 
and the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe have strongly condemned Azerbaijan for tightening re-
strictions on the media and jailing two bloggers who were critical of the government. It transpires the oil-rich country 
has long blocked BBC broadcasts there, which might explain why oft-criticised Andrew and former Prime Minister 
Tony Blair spend so much time visiting the sometime Soviet State. 
What does the snow have in common with the recession? Every other country can get out of both but Britain can't 
get out of either. HAPPY news: private jet travel is back, reports the Wall Street Journal. Alas, there is a "but" [#x2039] 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013430 
Page 2 
CITY SPY The Evening Standard (London) December 24, 2009 Thursday 
in-flight food remains in recession. Apparently, those who supply food to executive aircraft are seeing demand soar 
after a slump, but says one caterer: "No one is eating lobster. A quick turkey box lunch is the order of the day." Of 
course, that has nothing to do with the industry being desperate to re-brand itself as time-saving and cost-efficient. 
WHICH insurance broker saw a compliance officer pass out after the office Christmas lunch and have to be taken 
to hospital? 
WHO MADE OFF WITH THE MONEY? IT's a year since the Bernie Madoff affair blew up and the hedge fund 
king was found to have been ripping off his clients. If he was in Britain the old fi-audster would still be at liberty as 
lawyers pored over his case and the prosecution had barely cranked into operation. But the US is different [#x2039] his 
case is done and dusted, and he's languishing in jail. Even so, by US standards, the Madoff conviction was going some. 
Rumours persist that he pleaded guilty as quickly as he did and said the absolute minimum because he wasn't the main 
crook of the piece [#x2039] the main business of his hedge fund was washing money for organised crime. As soon as 
the balloon went up and he was arrested, he was warned by friends with Italian-American origins that his life, and the 
lives of his family, would be at risk were he not to "take the rap". 
OETaking the rap': hedge fund fraud Bernie Madoff 
UNFORTUNATE name? City Spy's eye is drawn to a forthcoming lecture at the Institute of Advanced Legal Stud-
ies, School of Advanced Study, University of London. Its in partnership with the Market Abuse Association. What? Do 
they wear a club tie? Do they refer to each other as fellow market abusers? 
LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013431 
Page 1 
• 
LexisNexis' 
6 of 11 DOCUMENTS 
Copyright 2009 ProQuest Information and Learning 
All Rights Reserved 
ProQuest SuperText 
Copyright 2009 Palm Beach Post 
Palm B each Daily News 
September 20, 2009 Sunday 
Dnl Edition 
SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A.1 
LENGTH: 1126 words 
HEADLINE: ATTORNEY FOR EPSTEIN VICTIMS: 1 HAVE NEVER SEEN A STRANGER CASE' 
BYLINE: MICHELE DARGAN, MICHELE DARGAN, Daily News Staff Writer 
BODY: 
Sex offender Jeffrey Epstein could have been charged with multiple counts of five federal offenses involving sex 
acts with minors and faced a life sentence, but, instead, the government agreed not to prosecute him or his procurers if 
he spent 18 months in the county jail on two state charges. 
Those were the details unsealed Friday in a nine-page federal non- prosecution agreement that lets Epstein and 
co-conspirators Sarah Kellen, Adriana Ross, Lesley Groff and Nadia Marcinkova off the hook for any of those past 
crimes. 
"He could have gone to prison for life and somehow he's getting immunity in exchange for nothing?" said Fort 
Lauderdale attorney Brad Edwards, who represents three Epstein victims. "I have never seen a stranger case. To me, its 
more spectacular what's not in it. Its the U.S. Attorneys Office saying well do everything in our power to see he doesn't 
get punished." 
Edwards has been fighting for a year in federal and state court to unseal the agreement. 
"The non-prosecution agreement raises more questions than it answers," said Miami attorney Adam Horowitz, who 
represents seven victims. "Why did all the co-conspirators receive immunity? Why were the victims not consulted re-
garding the sentence? Why did he receive such a minimal sentence? 
The federal deal has remained sealed in Epstein's state court file since he pleaded guilty in June 2008 to state 
charges of procuring a minor for prostitution and soliciting prostitution. 
U.S. Attorneys Office does not comment 
The federal charges he could have faced were: conspiracy to persuade minor females to engage in prostitution, 
conspiracy to travel to engage in illicit sexual conduct with minor females, persuading minor females to engage in pros-
titution, traveling to engage in illicit sexual conduct with minor females and causing a person under 18 years to engage 
in sex for money while knowing they are underage. 
The charges carry various statutory penalities ranging from 10 years to life, with a minimum mandatory of at least 
10 years. 
Alicia Valle, spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorneys Office in Miami, declined comment. 
Expert: Feds take few sex-assault cases 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013432 
Page 2 
ATTORNEY FOR EPSTEIN VICTIMS: 1 HAVE NEVER SEEN A STRANGER CASE Palm Beach Daily News 
September 20, 2009 Sunday 
North Palm Beach criminal defense attorney Barry Maxwell said he is not surprised that federal charges weren't 
filed. 
"My experience has been that the federal government does not intervene in sex-assault cases, except if were deal-
ing with a serial rapist or it crosses jurisdictional lines," Maxwell said. "Ifs either not a big enough case or not atrocious 
enough for them." 
Epstein, 56, served 13 months of his 18-month sentence at the Palm Beach County Stockade and received liberal 
work-release privileges while in jail. He was able to go to his West Palm Beach office six days a week for up to 16 
hours a day. 
He is now serving one year of probation at his Palm Beach mansion and is registered as a lifelong sex offender. 
Epstein 'fully abided' by deal, says defense 
Epstein's attorney Jack Goldberger released the following statement: "This document relates to allegations that 
were made many years ago. It was by its provisions and agreement of the parties to remain confidential in part to protect 
the identities of collateral third parties. 
"Mr. Epstein has fully abided by all of its terms and conditions. He is looking forward to putting this difficult peri-
od of his life behind him. He is continuing his longstanding history of science philanthropy both here in South Florida 
and nationwide." 
Goldberger had blocked the unsealing by filing court papers asking that the documents stay sealed "to prevent a se-
rious imminent threat to the fair, impartial and orderly administration of justice; to protect a compelling government 
interest; to avoid substantial injury to innocent third parties; and to avoid substantial injury to a party by disclosure of 
matters protected by a common law and privacy right, not generally inherent in these specific type of proceedings, 
sought to be closed." 
Circuit Judge Jeffrey Colbath ordered the agreement to be unsealed in June, but Epstein's attorneys appealed the 
ruling to the Fourth District Court of Appeals, which affirmed Colbath's ruling. Colbath had ruled that the federal 
agreement -- sealed in state court -- was improperly sealed. 
felt it was my fault' 
More than a dozen lawsuits against the billionaire money manager have been filed in federal and state court, all 
with similar allegations: that a minor girl was taken to Epstein's mansion on El Brillo Way and led upstairs to a spa 
room by one of Epstein's assistants, where he would ask the girl to perform massages and/or various sex acts, for which 
he would pay her. 
One victim, who is known as Jane Doe #5 in a federal court lawsuit against Epstein, said she didn't find out about 
the deal until after it was finalized. She was 15 at the time one of her schoolmates told her she could make $200 by giv-
ing a massage to a man in Palm Beach. 
She says she was "nervous and scared and wanted to leave" once she got to Epstein's spa room. 
"I thought, 1 can't call my dad or my mom because Pm stuck in this situation and didn't know what to do," she said. 
"I really didn't know what this man was capable of For a long time, I felt like it was my fault and that's exactly what he 
wanted me to feel." 
Epstein has curfew 
While he is serving the 12 months of house arrest at his Palm Beach home, Epstein must observe a 10 p.m. to 6 
a.m. curfew, have no unsupervised contact with anyone younger than 18 and not view, own or possess pornographic or 
sexual materials. 
The indictment followed an 11-month investigation by Palm Beach police, who said Epstein paid five underage 
girls for massages and sometimes sex at his El Brillo Way home. Then-State Attorney Barry Krischer declined to pros-
ecute Epstein on multiple charges involving unlawful sex acts with minors. Instead, he brought the case to a grand jury, 
which charged Epstein on the lesser charge of soliciting prostitution. 
Then-Palm Beach Police Chief Michael Reiter wrote Krischer a letter asking him to recuse himself from the case. 
When that didn't happen, Reiter requested an FBI investigation to determine if any federal laws were broken. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013433 
Page 3 
ATTORNEY FOR EPSTEIN VICTIMS: 1 HAVE NEVER SEEN A STRANGER CASE Palm Beach Daily News 
September 20, 2009 Sunday 
Out of the ordinary' 
West Palm Beach criminal defense attorney Gregg Lerman said several aspects of the Epstein case are unusual. 
"I don't understand why it would be a federal case in this circumstance, and why was there anything in writing at all 
and why did they seal the agreement?" Lerman said. "Why did it go to the grand jury instead of through the state filing 
lewd assault charges? That's unusual. And its very unusual that they structure a plea to get county time rather than 
prison time. That's definitely out of the ordinary. Nobody goes to county jail as a state criminal punishment." 
mdargan 
@pbdailynews.com 
GRAPHIC: Caption: Epstein Deal does not allow prosecution of co- conspirators. 
LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 013434 
