Speaker Biographies
Francis J. Kelly
Head, Government & Public Affairs, Deutsche Bank–North and Latin America
Global Coordinator–Public Affairs
Frank Kelly is Global Coordinator for Public Affairs as well as Head of Government & Public Affairs for North and Latin
Americas, primarily responsible for managing and coordinating relationships with elected officials and political and
legislative bodies globally. Additionally, he heads up the Bank’s U.S. Direct Investment Advisory Group (DIAG) providing
strategic counsel to non-U.S. companies engaged in cross-border mergers and acquisitions requiring regulatory and
political approvals. Mr. Kelly also serves as the Chief Political Risk Strategist advising clients on geopolitical and domestic
risk issues and their impact on markets and industry sectors.
Prior to joining Deutsche Bank, Mr. Kelly held senior executive positions at both Charles Schwab & Co. and Merrill Lynch &
Co, Inc. Before joining the private sector, Mr. Kelly served at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as Chief
Spokesman as well as the U.S. Department of Justice as Assistant to the Director for Policy Development where he
focused on international matters including terrorism and war crimes. Prior to these posts, he served in both the George H.
W. Bush and the Reagan White House where he started as a writer for President Reagan.
Mr. Kelly is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute of Strategic Studies. He serves as
a member of the Board of Directors of the Atlantic Council of the United States, the American Council on Germany and the
Jerome Lejeune Foundation.
Larry V. Adam
Chief Investment Officer, Wealth Management‒Americas
Chief Investment Strategist, Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management‒Americas
Larry Adam is a Managing Director and serves the dual role of Chief Investment Officer for Wealth Management‒Americas
and Chief Investment Strategist for Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management‒Americas. In his role as CIO, he chairs the
Americas Regional Investment Committee, the management team responsible for investment strategy and asset allocation
for discretionary portfolios in the Americas, and is a voting member on the Multi Asset Investment Committee, which
formalizes and establishes the global house view. As Chief Investment Strategist, Mr. Adam is responsible for articulating
and providing detailed research on the outlook for the economy and each major asset class in support of the house view.
Previously, Mr. Adam was the Head of the Asset Allocation and Quantitative Analysis Group, the group responsible for
analyzing and implementing client-specific asset allocation strategies. He is widely published and has been quoted in
various mainstream and financial publications, including The Wall Street Journal, Barron's and International Herald Tribune.
He also frequently appears on television and has been featured on CNBC and Bloomberg TV. Mr. Adam joined Deutsche
Bank Alex. Brown in 1992.
Mr. Adam received a B.B.A. and a master’s degree in business with a concentration in finance from Loyola University
Maryland. He has earned the Chartered Financial Analyst®, the Certified Investment Management Analyst® and the
Certified Financial Planner™ designations.
Speaker Biographies
Eric D.K. Melby
Principal, The Scowcroft Group
A founding Principal of The Scowcroft Group, Eric D. K. Melby has extensive experience in telecommunications, energy and
investment support. He also advises clients on market entry and geopolitical risk. Dr. Melby’s primary regions of focus are the
Middle East and Asia.
Dr. Melby was a senior staff member on the National Security Council from 1987 to 1993, during which he participated in
bilateral and multilateral trade and economic negotiations, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Uruguay
Round, bilateral economic issues, international energy policy and export controls. He was also member of the U.S. ‘Sherpa’
team for the G7 Economic Summits during this period. Before serving on the NSC staff, Dr. Melby was a Special Assistant to
the Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, responsible for trade and energy issues. Previously, he worked at the
International Energy Agency in Paris. He has also served with the U.S. Agency for International Development and was a
Peace Corps Volunteer in the Philippines.
Dr. Melby received his BA from Haverford College and his MA and PhD from the Johns Hopkins University (SAIS). He is a
member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a Director of the Atlantic Council of the United States and of the International
Student House of Washington, D.C. He serves on the advisory councils of the European Institute and of SAIS Europe. He
also sits on the Chapter of the Washington National Cathedral.
Kevin G. Nealer
Principal, The Scowcroft Group
A Principal of The Scowcroft Group, Kevin G. Nealer provides strategic risk advisory services and direct investment support
to clients, specializing in financial services and trade policy issues for emerging markets, with emphasis on China and
Southeast Asia. Before joining The Scowcroft Group, Mr. Nealer advised multinational clients on investment issues, project
finance, and trade law/policy as a principal in the consulting affiliate of Washington's largest law firm, and as Vice President
for corporate affairs with a leading government strategies practice.
On October 1, 2014, President Obama appointed Mr. Nealer as a Member of the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board.
Following his confirmation by the United States Senate on December 14, 2010, Mr. Nealer had served on the Board of
Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the development finance agency of the U.S. government, and as a
member of OPIC’s Audit and Governance Committees until the conclusion of his term in January, 2013. He is a member of
the international advisory boards of Ancora Capital Management Pte, Ltd., China Highland Fund, and the board of the
Australian American Leadership Dialogue. A trade attorney and former State Department officer, Mr. Nealer previously
served as trade policy advisor to the Senate Democratic Leadership.
A member of the Council on Foreign Relations, he is the author of numerous articles on political economy, including coauthoring
the Council’s report Beginning the Journey: China, the United States, and the WTO. He is a consultant to the U.S.
government on trade and economic security issues. A Fulbright professor in the People’s Republic of China (1990 to 1991),
Mr. Nealer has served as a lecturer, program moderator, and adjunct professor of trade law and policy at the Georgetown
University McDonough School of Business.
Mr. Nealer received his JD from Case Western Reserve University, and serves on its International Visiting Committee. He
received his BA from the University of Michigan and is a member of the Advisory Board of the Michigan in Washington
Program.
“Deutsche Bank” means Deutsche Bank AG and its affiliated companies. Deutsche Asset & Wealth
Management represents the asset management and wealth management activities conducted by Deutsche
Bank AG or its subsidiaries. Banking and lending services are offered through Deutsche Bank Trust Company
Americas, member FDIC, and other members of the Deutsche Bank Group. Brokerage services are offered
through Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., a broker-dealer and registered investment adviser, which conducts
investment banking and securities activities in the United States. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. is a member
of FINRA, NYSE and SIPC. © 2015 Deutsche Bank AG. All rights reserved. 022527.112315

