From: J [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 2/1/2019 4:11:28 PM 
To: Michael Wolff 
Subject: Re: FYI 
Needs edit but ... ie 36! M Ryboloev not known in 05 , Talk later 
On Fri, Feb 1, 2019 at 11:07 AM Michael Wolff < > wrote: 
Books and newspaper accounts of Trump's 45 years in business were full of his 
shady dealings, and the presidency had only helped to highlight them and to surface even 
juicier ones. Real estate was the world's favorite money laundering currency and Trump's 
B-level real estate business was quite explicitly designed to appeal to money launderers. 
What's more, Trump's own financial woes, and desperate efforts to maintain billionaire 
lifestyle, cache, and market viability, forced him into constant and unsubtle 
schemes. Practically speaking, you couldn't miss him, as the Mueller investigation 
appeared to be finding. 
In November 2004, for instance, Jeffrey Epstein, the financier later caught in a scandal 
involving under-age prostitutes, agreed to buy out of bankruptcy a house in Palm Beach, 
Florida for $30 million—a house that had been on the market for two years. Epstein and 
Trump had been close friends—playboys in arms, as it were—for more than a decade, 
with Epstein often counseling Trump on his chaotic financial affairs. Epstein took Trump 
to see the Palm Beach house to advise him on construction issues involved with moving a 
swimming pool. As he prepared to finalize his deal for the house, an incredulous Epstein 
saw a severely cash-constrained Trump bid $41 million for the property, buying it 
through an entity called Trump Properties LLC, financed by Deutsche Bank. Trump, 
Epstein knew, had been renting his name, telling Epstein he ought to do the same—that 
is, for an ample fee, Trump was willing to serve as a front man to disguise the actual 
ownership in a real estate transaction. (This was, in effect, just another variation of 
Trump's basic business model of licensing his name for commercial properties owned by 
someone else.) A furious Epstein, suspecting that the real owner was a Russian oligarch, 
who Trump knew, Dmitry Rybolovlev—part of the close Putin circle of government-
aligned industrialists in Russia—threatened to expose the deal, then getting extensive 
scrutiny in Florida papers. The fight became all the more bitter when, two months later, 
the house was put on the market for $125 million. Well known to Trump, who often saw 
Epstein at his current Palm Beach house, Epstein was visited almost every day, and had 
been for many years, by girls who he paid for massages with happy endings—girls 
recruited from local restaurants, strip clubs, and, also, Trump's Mar-a-Lago. Just as the 
threats and enmity of the two friends increased over the house sale, Epstein found 
himself under investigation by local Palm Beach police. Epstein's legal problems vastly 
escalated as the house, with only minor improvements, was bought for $96 million by 
Dmitry Rybolovlev. That is, Trump had either miraculously earned $55 million, without 
putting up a dime, or Rybolovlev, or someone such as Rybolovlev, paid Trump Properties, 
LLC—actual owner unknown—$96 million, thereby providing a clean payment of $55 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030972 
million to someone. Ryboloyley might have, in effect, paid himself for the house, thereby 
cleansing the money. Epstein, on his part, would spend 12 months in jail on a prostitution 
charge. 
After the election, when Bannon was introduced to Epstein, Bannon told him, "You were 
the one person I was truly afraid of coming forward during the campaign." 
"And rightly so," said Epstein. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030973 
