From: 
Sent: 4/30/2011 9:36:09 PM 
To: Jefffrey Epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fw: from Jesse Kornbluth 
Importance: High 
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T 
From: "Peggy Siegal' 
Date: Sat, 30 Apr 2011 16:59:25 -0400 
To: 
Subject: Fw: from Jesse Kornbluth 
Jesse Kornbluth could never make a dime. He is an angry loser who was married to Annette Tapert years ago.(She now is married to 
Joe Allen and they live near you in PB) Annette left him because there was no bread on the table and he is nasty. 
What should I do? Call him or not? Peg 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Jesse Kornbluth 
To: Peggy Siegal 
Cc: Jesse Kornbluth 
Sent: Sat Apr 30 16:29:18 2011 
Subject: Re: from Jesse Kornbluth 
Peg --
Obviously, I'm sharing what follows on the assumption that everything here is just between us. 
The thesis of the Times piece is that the rich and their corporations have SO much power 
that we no longer live in a democracy. 
Can "we the people" make change? Not really. 
Who can? The rich and powerful. 
Huh? All they want is the status quo. Or more. 
But they could --- okay, its not likely, but they could --- turn on the bad actors at their social/economic level. 
For example: Wall Street CEOs, donors to the Tea Party, etc. 
That's the topic. Shaming. Shunning. 
One of the people I deal with --- there are several others. --- is Jeffrey Epstein. 
Reading the clips, I don't see that Jeffrey as been shunned. 
In this piece --- http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2011-04-01/bill-clinton-katie-couric-woody-allen-jeffrey-epsteins-
society-friends-close-ranks/ ---
I read: 
The crowd at the events top publicist Peggy Siegal has organized for Epstein proves the point, at least behind closed doors. "I and 
many others that know him describe him as brilliant," says Siegal. 
"His unique mind is what attracts the world's smartest people to his home." Last September, with Siegal's help, Epstein hosted a Break 
Fast after Yom Kippur. A group of 120 friends brought their children over for a buffet dinner 
This was just a few months after he finished his prison obligations in Florida. 
And here he is, entertaining --- with children present. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031694 
This Break Fast is one of a number of social events involving post-prison Jeffrey that attracted celebrated, powerful people. 
Of course I have zero idea who said, "NO WAY" and didn't cross his doorway. 
My questions are: 
1) I You have known him for decades, were/are friends, etc. 
Why was your reaction to his crimes to continue being his friend --- and not in a covert way? 
2) What would he have had to do for you to shun him --- to cut him out of your life? 
You're the ultimate professional; you may not want to respond. 
Especially because I'm NOT reaching out to anyone else who's named in the piece. 
I don't care about them. 
But it ain't me to blindside you. 
JK 
On Apr 30, 2011, at 4:03 PM, Peggy Siegal wrote: 
Would love to talk to you. What is piece about? Peg 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Jesse Kornbluth 
To: Peggy Siegal 
Sent: Sat Apr 30 15:38:06 2011 
Subject: from Jesse Kornbluth 
Peg As you've seen, I'm doing a piece for the Times. 
You're briefly in it. 
Pd like 3 minutes of your time, if possible. 
Turning it in late Sunday.... 
We could do this by email. 
Or phone. 
I'm at 
If I'm out, my cell i 
THANKS 
JK 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031695 
