From: Peggy SiegalliM1111.1.1 
Sent: 3/7/2013 2:03:11 PM 
To: jeeyacation@gmail.com 
Subject: Fw: Oscar Diary 
I am struggling thru this. It is so late already. I am so stressed out. Will finishe is in a day or 
two.. I can not write about the Katzenberg party. Maybe can just mention is happened in my hotel But 
the reason to go was to support Katzenberg and network. More to come. Peg 
----- Original Message ----- 
From: Peggy Siegal 
Sent: Thursday, March 07, 2013 08:51 AM 
To: Peggy Siegal 
Subject: Oscar Diary 
It's Thursday morning on Wilshire Boulevard and the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences has just 
opened it's doors for ticket pick-up for the 85th Oscar telecast. 
Forty voting members, the distinguished director Norman Jewison and I are on a long single file line that 
snakes thru the lobby patiently waiting to go upstairs to pick up our tickets. My seats were awarded via 
a lottery system. We clutch our photo I.D. 
Suddenly, a messenger slips in wearing a smart khaki windbreaker and cuts through the line. He announces 
to the uniformed guard in a stage whisper, "Dreamworks", and as if Steven Spielberg himself had just 
delivered the Gettysburg address, is ushered upstairs. 
That is the final act of social justice of the "Lincoln" campaign. 
I am sleep deprived and jet lagged having just spent six hours on a flight sitting next Paula Wagner who 
is Tom Cruise's ex-agent turned Broadway producer for Jessica Chastain's "The Heiress". We discuss 
Jessica's not so great chances to beat Jennifer Lawrence for Best Actress. I mention Harvey Weinstein's 
concern about Emmanuel Riva's last minute surge. The French phenomena doesn't speak English, has never 
been to L.A. and it's like voting for a ghost, even on her 86th birthday. 
This is the year I got phone calls in September from top studio executives announcing each are winning 
the Oscar. Their euphoric giddiness is due to the quality of the films resulting in the priciest oscar 
campaigns on record and astounding audience support at the theaters. 
Seven of the nine best picture nominees have taken in well over $100 million at the domestic box office 
to date, but it's the worldwide numbers in the millions that are staggering. 
Twentieth Century Fox's "Life of Pi" caused a tsunami at $595, 
Universal's "Les Miserables" scored $412, the Weinstein Cos.' "Django Unchained" whipped up $395, 
DreamWorks' "Lincoln" delivered at $254, Warner's "Argo" captured $219, Weinstein's "Silver Lining 
Playbook" danced to $187 and Sony's "Zero Dark Thirty" killed at $107 million. 
In comparison, Sony Classics' "Amour" received $19 and Fox Searchlights' "Beast of the Southern Wild" 
worked up $19 million. 
Hugh audiences having actually seen the films this year have an ear for the nuances of the Oscar race and 
everyone including Ben Affleck follow the bloggers religiously. 
So by Thursday morning on line at the Academy the informed buzz was as follows: "Argo" takes best 
picture because is was most entertaining. The director snub to Ben Affleck was a Godsend as George 
Clooney's advice came from far away Berlin where he was in pre-production on "The Monuments Men". 
Warner's president Sue Kroll kept the campaign clean and calm on the home front. 
"Lincoln's" victory is Daniel Day Lewis from day one of shooting, no pun intended. The suggestion that 
Obama is our answer to Lincoln was interesting. Voters knew Obama secretly hosted three screenings in the 
White House, but they weren't invited. The Hollywood Foreign press were the biggest winners with Bill 
Clinton's surprise appearance on their broadcast. DreamWorks' ran an impeccable patriotic campaign that 
the media ate up. 
The best director race had the most drama. Hollywood dreaded Spielberg loosing to Ang Lee. (Eventually 
everyone was thrilled Steven was anointed president of the Cannes Jury for 2013 the day after the awards 
show.) 
The voters knew beloved Ang Lee's three year boat ride was the technical miracle. Fox's $595 million 
international box office blew in the win. 
Harvey Weinstein having three horses running is always the most talked about. His loquacious Quentin 
Tarentino was a lock for screenplay. Best supporting actor was a total toss up with a sentimental edge 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031118 
to Robert DeNiro. We even applauded Bob putting his handprints in cement in front of Grauman's Chinese 
Theater. 
The conversations continued about how our government put the cabasch on "Zero Dark Thirty" with their 
arrogant denial of enhanced interrogation. Even MPAA President Chris Dodd could not help Mark Boal, 
Katherine Bigalow and Amy Pascal. 
Additional chatter was the renewed last minute love for "Les Miserables". Clearly the most polarizing 
film in the race, this 27 year old theatrical musical seen by 60 million fans is now the talk of the 
Oscar weekend. 
Hugh Jackman, Anne Hathaway, Russell Crowe, Amanda Segfried, Eddie Redmayne, Sasha Baron Cohen, Helena 
Bonham Carter and Samanthe Barks are making an historic one time live performance as part of Sunday's 
television broadcast. Producers Craig Zadan and Neil Meron's will attempt to razzel dazzel us with an 
homage to movie musicals for three plus hours at the Dolby theater. 
Barbra Streisand, Adele and Shirley Basse's appearances also create high anxiety and a blood bath for 
tickets...hence the hysteria created by DreamWorks' messenger cutting the line. 
After checking into the iconic Beverly Hills Hotel, my home away from home for 30 years of Oscar weekends 
and meticulously laying out all the ensembles sent from Valentino and Ralph Rucci, I hit the party 
circuit overdressed for life. 
Daisy... I can do this...fairly easily now...but I have a lunch at 12:30pm and important meetings. I am 
so distraught about all this pressure. I am calling you now. Peggy 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031119 
