
Brockman, Inc.     260 Fifth Avenue   New York, New York 10001   Tel (212) 935-8900     Fax (212) 935-5535





     BROCKMAN, INC. AUCTIONS NOISE BY DANIEL KAHNEMAN,
OLIVIER SIBONY, AND CASS R. SUNSTEIN 30 MARKETS

New York, NY, Tuesday, March 20, 2018– Max Brockman, CEO of Brockman, Inc. announced today the sale of NOISE by Daniel Kahneman, Olivier Sibony, and Cass R. Sunstein.

Kahneman, Sibony, and Sunstein were represented in the negotiations by John Brockman for US/Canadian rights, and Max Brockman, who supervised auctions in the UK and  foreign language markets.

According to Max Brockman, “We’ve never seen a week like this in the 45-year history of Brockman, Inc. Thirty auctions were conducted within a week, all setting new agency records for publishing advances in each market and, in many markets, at levels never seen before for a serious nonfiction book.”

“This speaks to the remarkable track record of Kahneman’s THINKING FAST AND SLOW, which has been on The New York Times Bestseller List since publication in 2011, with global sales approaching 6 million copies, 2 million of which are in the UK, making it the biggest nonfiction book in the 100-year history of Allen Lane/Penguin.” 

“Another factor in the extraordinary reaction by publishers worldwide are the expertise and skill sets that Olivier Sibony and Cass Sunstein bring to the project.

According to Tracy Behar, VP, Publisher, and Editor-in-Chief of Little, Brown Spark, who acquired US/Canadian rights to the book, “Daniel Kahneman, Olivier Sibony, and Cass Sunstein are three of the greatest thinkers of our time, and I believe NOISE will be one of our most influential books, with far-reaching applications. It’s an honor to be able to publish it.” 

About the authors:

Daniel Kahneman, author of the bestseller THINKING FAST AND SLOW, is Emeritus Professor of Psychology and Public Affairs at Princeton. He is the winner of the 2002
Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his pioneering work integrating insights from psychological research into economic science, especially concerning human judgment and decision making under uncertainty. 

Olivier Sibony is a professor, writer, and advisor specializing in the quality of strategic thinking and the design of decision processes. Sibony teaches Strategy, Decision Making, and Problem Solving at HEC Paris. He is also an Associate Fellow of Saïd Business School in Oxford University. Previously, he was a Senior Partner with McKinsey & Company, where he spent 25 years.

Cass R. Sunstein is currently the Robert Walmsley University Professor at Harvard. From 2009 to 2012 he was Administrator of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. From 2013 to 2014, he served on President Obama’s Review Group on Intelligence and Communication Technologies. From 2016 to 2017, he served on the Defense Innovation Board of the US Department of Defense. He is the author of the bestsellers NUDGE (with Richard H. Thaler) and THE WORLD ACCORDING TO STAR WARS. His two most recent books, IMPEACHMENT: A CITIZEN’S GUIDE and CAN IT HAPPEN HERE? Are reviewed together on the front page of THE NEW YORK TIMES BOOK REVIEW (March 18, 2018). Sunstein is the recipient of the 2018 Holberg prize, awarded annually to a scholar who has made outstanding contributions to research in the arts, humanities, the social sciences, law or theology.

About Brockman, Inc.
Brockman, Inc., established in 1973  by founder John Brockman, is the preeminent international literary agency in the representation of serious non-fiction  authors who are the leaders of “the third culture”, i.e., those scientists and other thinkers in the empirical world who, through their work and expository writing, are taking the place of the traditional intellectual in rendering visible the deeper meanings of our lives, redefining who and what we are.”  








