From: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 7/24/2015 8:47:39 PM 
To: Sultan Bin Sulayem 
Subject: Re: FDA Approved a Potent and Pricey Cholesterol lowering drug today 
yes, it requires a shot, its not a pill and so far no long term effects known 
On Fri, Jul 24, 2015 at 4:37 PM, Sultan Bin Sulayem < 
Have you heard of this colestrol 
Jul 24, 2015 @ 3:23 PM 1,169 views 
_ wrote: 
The FDA Approves A Potent And Pricey 
Cholesterol-Lowering Shot 
Matthew Herper, 
Forbes Staff 
I cover science and medicine, and believe this is biology's century. 
• Follow on Forbes  
f1970)  
Full Bio 
Recent Posts 
• Popular Posts 
I believe this is biology's century. I've covered science and medicine for Forbes from the Human Genome 
Project through Vioxx to the blossoming DNA technology changing the world today. Email me, follow me on 
Twitter, circle me onGoogle Plus, or subscribe to my Facebook page. 
Loading... 
Loading... 
The Food and Drug Administration has approved Praluent, a new medicine to lower cholesterol in people who 
have established heart disease, for people whose risk of a heart attack or stroke is not being adequately 
controlled by existing drugs called statins. 
It might be a big step in the battle against heart disease — and the approval is a triumph for Regeneron 
Pharmaceuticals, the Tarrytown, N.Y.-based biotechnology company that invented it. Praluent is likely to be 
more widely used, and to cost more, than Wall Steet analysts expected. That also means it could be a big cost 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026362 
down the line. 
"Obviously, the class is one of the biggest developments in cardiology in the last decade, that will allow us to 
treat patients who have been extremely difficult to treat with high levels of LDL cholesterol," says Steven 
Nissen, chairman of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic. "It's very promising." 
But it will also be very expensive, say Troy Brennan, the chief medical officer of CVS Caremark, the giant 
pharmacy benefits manager."If these drugs are used as broadly as they could be used, they are going to be by 
far the most expensive drug class," Brennan says. 
Praluent, an injection, lowers low-density lipoprotein, the so-called "bad cholesterol", by as much as 60%, far 
more than the statin drugs alone. It is the first drug to work by targeting a protein called PCSK9. Mutations in 
the gene that makes it can result in patients having lower cholesterol and a dramatically lower lifetime risk of 
heart attacks. A rival medicine from Amgen is also expected to be approved soon. The FDA is 
clearing Praluent for patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a genetic condition that causes 
high cholesterol, and for people who have heart disease, like those who've had heart attacks or strokes, who 
are already taking the maximum dose of a statin they can tolerate. 
Regeneron and its marketing partner Sanofi say Praluent will have a wholesale cost of $40 a day, or $14,600 a 
year, for either of two doses, 75 milligrams or 150 mgs. It's likely that insurance companies will get a 
significant discount, because Amgen and Regeneron will compete by giving the insurers rebates. 
Recommended by Forbes 
Most Popular 
Photos: America's New Manufacturing Boomtowns 
Most Popular 
Barrel Rolling With A Thrillionaire Entrepreneur 
Most Popular 
Photos: The 10 Best And Worst States To Make A Living In 2015 
Trending on LinkedIn  
Donald Trump And The Decline Of American Character--A Cautionary Tale 
.11174-ta, 
Most Popular 
Photos: America's New Manufacturing Boomtowns 
Most Popular 
Barrel Rolling With A Thrillionaire Entrepreneur 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026363 
Most Popular 
Photos: The 10 Best And Worst States To Make A Living In 2015 
Trending on LinkedIn  
Donald Trump And The Decline Of American Character--A Cautionary Tale 
"We don't want the noise about these drugs to be price," says Leonard Schleifer, the chief executive and 
founder of Regeneron. "We have to make sure that people get access to the drug for a fair price if they're 
insured, for free if they're not insured, or at a discount if they're under-insured." 
Praluent's price is 46% higher than that forecast by Evercore ISI, an investment bank, and it is being approved 
for a larger group of patients than many Wall Street analysts expected following a meeting convened by the 
FDA to analyze the data on the drug. Some doctors argued its use should be restricted mainly to patients with 
FH. But Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI's pharmaceutical analyst, says that investors were initially 
disappointed because they had hoped the FDA would greenlight the drug for an even broader group. 
Regeneron shares were down 2.5% in afternoon trading before they were halted pending news. 
But doctors may prescribe the drug more widely than the label suggests. A survey of physicians published this 
morning by Geoffrey Porges, an biotechnology analyst at investment bank Sanford C. Bernstein, found that 
they would use the drug in 30% to 40% of patients who had already had heart attacks. He wrote that 2020 
sales of Praluent could be as high as $4.8 billion. 
In the survey, doctors expressed a preference for Praluent. One advantage of Regeneron's drug is that doctors 
will be able to start it at a lower, 75 milligram dose. 
Schleifer, who is a medical doctor and, incidentally, a billionaire thanks to his Regeneron stake, says that the 
company expects that as many as 8 million people who don't have their cholesterol well-controlled could be 
candidates for Praluent. He emphasized, though, that until larger studies prove the drug prevents heart attacks 
and strokes patients should always choose statins first. It will have sales representatives a 
Insurance companies and pharmacy benefit managers, who help insurers and employers manage drug costs, are 
going to do their best to restrict use of Praluent, though. Brennan, the CVS Caremark executive, says that he 
expects patients will need to have medical records documenting that they have already taken statins. Those not 
taking statins would need a blood test confirming that a statin caused elevations in muscle or liver enzymes, 
not just complaints that they were achy. "We're not trying to replace statins," says Schliefer, the Regeneron 
CEO. 
Most people who have muscle problems from statins do not have those elevated muscle enzymes, says Nissen, 
the Cleveland Clinic cardiologist, who is conducting a clinical trial Amgen and Pfizer, which is also 
developing a similar cholesterol drug. He says he has patients who are "desperate" to take a statin but who 
cannot tolerate it because of muscle pain but do not have elevated muscle enzymes. 
"Dehspite significant progress over the last decades, high cholesterol remains a leading concern in the U.S. and 
globally," said Olivier Brandicourt, M.D., Chief Executive Officer, Sanofi. "Praluent demonstrates the power 
of the Sanofi and Regeneron alliance to deliver a first-in-class therapy in the U.S. for patients in need. Sanofi 
has a strong cardiovascular heritage and dedication to these patients, and we look forward to working with 
other regulatory authorities to make Praluent available to patients worldwide." 
"We are grateful to the thousands of patients and investigators worldwide who participated in the ODYSSEY 
clinical trial program," said Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., Founder, President, and Chief Executive 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026364 
Officer, Regeneron. "Praluent represents the culmination of more than a decade of tireless work to translate the 
genetic-based discovery of PCSK9 into an innovative medicine that brings meaningful value to patients." 
The approval of Praluent was based on data from the pivotal Phase 3 ODYSSEY program, which showed 
consistent, positive results compared to placebo, which included current standard of care therapy (statins). In 
the ODYSSEY LONG TERM trial which evaluated Praluent 150 mg every two weeks, Praluent reduced LDL 
cholesterol by 58 percent versus placebo at week 24 when added to current standard of care, including 
maximally tolerated statins. In ODYSSEY COMBO I, Praluent 75 mg every two weeks as an adjunct to statins 
reduced LDL cholesterol by an additional 46 percent compared to placebo at week 12. At week 24 in the same 
trial, Praluent reduced LDL cholesterol by 43 percent compared to placebo. In this study, if additional LDL 
cholesterol lowering was required based on pre-specified criteria at week 8, Praluent was up-titrated to 150 mg 
at week 12 for the remainder of the trial. Eighty-three percent of patients remained on their initial 75 mg dose. 
Praluent is generally well-tolerated with an acceptable safety profile. Local injection site reactions including 
redness, itching, swelling or pain/tenderness where the injection is given were the most common events (7.2 
percent with Praluent versus 5.1 percent with placebo) and resulted in a low discontinuation rate that was 
comparable to placebo (0.2 percent with Praluent versus 0.4 percent with placebo). Patients receiving Praluent 
had a greater number of injection site reactions, had more reports of associated symptoms, and had reactions of 
longer average duration than patients receiving placebo. Other common adverse events occurring more 
frequently in patients with Praluent than placebo included symptoms of the common cold and flu or flu-like 
symptoms. 
The companies carefully considered the potential medical value that Praluent offers patients in determining the 
Wholesale Acquisition Cost (WAC). The U.S. WAC price of Praluent is $40 per day ($1,120 every 28 days) 
for both the 75 mg and 150 mg doses, making Praluent the lowest priced patient-administered monoclonal 
antibody therapy on an annualized basis. Actual costs to patients, payers and health systems are anticipated to 
be lower as WAC pricing does not reflect discounts or rebates. Out-of-pocket costs to patients will vary 
depending on insurance status and eligibility for patient assistance. 
Sanofi and Regeneron are committed to ensuring that patients in the U.S. who are prescribed Praluent are able 
to access the medicine and receive the support they may need. The companies will launch a comprehensive 
program that offers support, training and follow up for patients at every step of the process. The program will 
provide patient assistance to uninsured or underinsured patients, including providing free medicine to eligible 
patients, and can help identify coverage options for out-of-pocket costs. Additional services include 
educational information, clinical support for physicians, nurses and pharmacists, as well as reimbursement 
services, including co-pay support for eligible patients and information about insurance eligibility support. For 
more information, please call 1-844-PRALUENT (1-844-772-5836______). 
Earlier today, the companies announced that the European Medicine Agency's (EMA's) Committee for 
Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) has adopted a positive opinion for the marketing authorization of 
Praluent, recommending its approval for use in certain adult patients with hypercholesterolemia. The European 
Commission (EC) is expected to make a final decision on the Marketing Authorization Application for 
Praluent in the European Union in September 2015. 
Investor Relations Conference Call on Praluent 
Sanofi and Regeneron will be hosting a conference call for the financial community on Praluent® (alirocumab) 
Injection for the treatment of high LDL cholesterol in adult patients. The conference call will take place on 
Friday, July 24, 2015 (21:30 CET / 20:30 BST/ 15:30 EDT / 12:30 PDT). 
The call will be available through audio webcast at www.sanofi.com and www.regeneron.com and also via the 
following telephone numbers: 
France: 
+33 (0) 1 70 80 71 53_ 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026365 
UK: 
+44 (0) 203 107 0289 
U.S.: 
+1 888 660 6127 
Access code: 81662098 
ODYSSEY Program 
The ODYSSEY Phase 3 program is one of the most comprehensive clinical trial programs ever conducted for 
an investigational LDL cholesterol lowering therapy. The program includes 14 global Phase 3 trials evaluating 
more than 23,500 patients. The primary efficacy end point in all of the studies was the mean percent reduction 
from baseline in LDL cholesterol at week 24 compared to placebo (maximally tolerated statin therapy); all of 
the completed studies met their primary endpoint. A significantly higher proportion of patients achieved LDL 
cholesterol of less than 70 mg/dL in the Praluent group as compared to placebo at both week 12 and week 24. 
The ongoing ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial will prospectively evaluate the cardiovascular benefits of Praluent 
in approximately 18,000 patients. 
Important Safety Information 
Do not use PRALUENT if you are allergic to alirocumab or to any of the ingredients in PRALUENT. 
Before you start using PRALUENT, tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions, including 
allergies, and if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant or if you are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. 
Tell your healthcare provider or pharmacist about any prescription and over-the-counter medicines you are 
taking or plan to take, including natural or herbal remedies. 
PRALUENT can cause serious side effects, including allergic reactions that can be severe and require 
treatment in a hospital. Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away 
if you have any symptoms of an allergic reaction including a severe rash, redness, severe itching, a swollen 
face or trouble breathing. 
The most common side effects of PRALUENT include: redness, itching, swelling, or pain/tenderness at the 
injection site, symptoms of the common cold, and flu or flu-like symptoms. Tell your healthcare provider if 
you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. 
Talk to your doctor about the right way to prepare and give yourself a PRALUENT injection and follow the 
"Instructions for Use" that comes with Praluent. 
You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit 
www. fda. gov/medwatch or call 1 -800-FDA-1088______ 
Please click here for the full Prescribing Information. 
About Sanofi 
Sanofi, an integrated global healthcare leader, discovers, develops and distributes therapeutic solutions focused 
on patients' needs. Sanofi has core strengths in the field of healthcare with seven growth platforms: diabetes 
solutions, human vaccines, innovative drugs, consumer healthcare, emerging markets, animal health and the 
new Genzyme. Sanofi is listed in Paris (EURONEXT: SAN) and in New York (NYSE: SNY). 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026366 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026367 
