From: Diane Ziman 
on behalf of Diane Ziman 
Sent: 1/23/2018 9:59:38 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fwd: Keep the March Alive! 
Jeffrey --
Did you see my son's email on Sunday? 
I was so proud to see him speak at the Women's March this weekend, joining thousands of passionate 
Floridians who want real change in our state, and across the country. 
But we both know that change doesn't come easy. And there are a lot of folks in Tallahassee that want to 
keep things the same as usual. 
We can't afford the status quo so they can have their way. We need leadership that will bring the 
change that so many have been marching for over the past year. 
Can I count on you to help my son bring that change to Tallahassee? 
Click here to join his campaign today, and help him do the right thing for our neighbors  
across the state.  
#ThatsMyBoy 
- Diane 
Forwarded message 
I spent the day with thousands of fellow Floridians, celebrating the one year anniversary of the 
Women's March. 
I was inspired by the crowds, their voice, and their passion. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026245 
Empowering women in the age of Trump is an essential part of moving this country forward. But 
that means moving forward on issues that have long been stalled -equal pay, better education, 
and a living wage. 
In 2018, we have the chance to move these issues forward, and I'm asking for your help in 
makins it ha en.  
aaa. . .. 1 
If the crowds we saw in St. Petersburg, Miami, and dozens of other cities across this country are 
any indication, we have the momentum! 
Now we need to bring it to Tallahassee. 
Sincerely, 
Philip 
Paid by Philip Levine, Democrat, for Governor 
Philip Levine for Governor 
960 Alton Road 
Miami Beach FL 33139 United States 
We're so thankful of your support, and we hope you will take the next step by signing up to volunteer with 
our campaign. If you would like to be removed from our email list, please click the following link and we 
will remove you promptly: unsubscribe  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026246 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026247 
