From: How To Academy 
Sent: 6/13/2019 10:17:44 AM 
To: jeevacation@gmail.com 
Subject: The Inside Scoop on Trump's White House — Michael Wolff and Matthew d'Ancona In Conversation 
The Inside Scoop on Trump's White House — Michael Wolff and Matthew d'Ancona In Conversation 
View this email in your browser 
Trump Under Fire 
MICHAEL WOLFF 
Buy Tickets 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026975 
WHEN: WHERE: 
Fri, 21st Jun 2019 Emmanuel Centre 
6:45pm - 8:00pm 9-23 Marsham Street 
Michael Wolff is back. It's time to return to the madness and chaos of the Trump White House 
as the bestselling Fire and Fury author delivers wickedly entertaining insights from Year Two of 
the most divisive presidency in history. Discover just how close this most abnormal of 
presidencies has come to breaking point... 
Buy Tickets 
Trump Under Fire: Michael Wolff in Conversation with Matthew d'Ancona 
Praise for Michael Wolff 
"A deliciously catty look inside the White House, full of wicked anecdotes and gossipy gold. It's 
like sitting in a hairdresser's listening to a fabulously indiscreet conversation beside you. It's 
The Kardashians: White House edition (Harriet Alexander Telegraph) 
Utterly gripping (GQ) 
"Once again, the dirt is abundant. Donald Trump insults everyone in his 
orbit, repeatedly, viciously, and - always privately - they return the favor 
.. Siege is overflowing with such titillating material, which is sure to make 
t another tour de force for the Trump resistance" (Vanity Fair) 
"Bannon's frequently shrewd observations make it clear why Wolff finds 
him irresistible. The author is mostly interested in Trump's psychology. 
He is adept at documenting the president's lunacy, and Bannon is 
frequently an able fellow shrink" (Washington Post) 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026976 
Rich in psychological insights (Peter Conrad Observer) 
Michael Wolff has unearthed a mass of damning material about Donald Trump .. . Siege is 
filled with delicious gossip (Sarah Baxter Sunday Times) 
Michael Wolff is the author of Fire and Fury, the number 
one Sunday Times and New York Times bestseller that for 
the first time told the inside story of the Trump White 
House. He has received numerous awards for his work, 
including two National Magazine Awards. The author of 
seven previous books, he has been a regular columnist for 
Vanity Fair, New York, The Hollywood Reporter, British GQ, 
and other magazines and newspapers. 
Matthew d'Ancona is an editor at Tortoise Media and an 
award-winning columnist. He writes for The Guardian, 
London Evening Standard and GQ. He was previously 
editor of The Spectator and founding editor-in-chief of 
Drugstore Culture. His most recent book, Post-Truth: The 
New War on Truth and How to Fight Back, received global 
acclaim. 
Buy Tickets on Eventbrite 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026977 
Share this Email with your Friends 
Share 
Tweet 
More Upcoming Events 
02 JUL 2019 
Joseph Stiglitz on the Future of 
Capitalism  
In our turbulent times, join us for an evening 
of insight and analysis from the world's pre-
eminent economist — Nobel laureate and 
former Chief Economist of the World Bank, 
Joseph Stiglitz. 
Forward 
05 SEP 2019 
How to Predict the Next Financial Crisis 
Nobel laureate and Yale Professor Richard 
Shiller predicts bubbles, busts and other 
financial crises years before anyone else. 
Find out how — and be the first to discover 
his most powerful idea yet. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026978 
Since 2013 the How To: Academy has offered a home for people who think big. Now you can 
go deeper into the world of ideas by becoming a Member. 
'4,41-"Lv 
relE. 
ES.= 
'Me= 
Copyright © 2019 How To Academy, All rights reserved. 
You are receiving this email because you opted in our website howtoacademy.com and 
indicated you wished to receive news about courses and offers. 
Our mailing address is: 
How To Academy 
11 Aldridge Road Villas 
London, England W11 1BL 
United Kingdom 
www.howtoacademy.com  
how to: unsubscribe I update subscription preferences 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026979 
