we love surprises.
we feel that elegance comes in more colors than white.
we embrace intimate gatherings of 2,000,
and boisterous crowds of ten.
we are confident that if you want it, we can find it.
we can’t resist setting high expectations. and then exceeding them.
we recognize the power of a good story.
and that what’s been done before is the last refuge of the uninspired.
we believe in “wow.”
we believe illusion is the first of all pleasures.
we see your event as more than a reflection of you.
it is you. just more so.
we are inspired by the doctrine of original thought.
we pay attention to detail.
we live for beauty.
we support the politics of chintz. and the etiquette of mylar.
we create tents made of satin. and evenings made of fun.
we believe in happy endings.
we are Rafanelli Events.
and the best event we’ve ever done
is going to be yours.
Capabilities
Rafanelli Events is an award-winning event company with a proven track record of
producing breathtaking events for our clients. Using a combination of creativity,
service, design and production, we work closely with all clients to create event
concepts and designs that truly represent their unique goals and objectives.
Rafanelli Events has spent more than fifteen years building strong relationships
with the best companies across the country and we consistently provide our
clients with the most up-to-date technologies and innovations. Our success is
built on listening to, respecting, understanding and complementing some of the
most successful people, companies and brands in the world.
Rafanelli Team
Twenty-five talented, creative and dedicated professionals
Our event teams each consist of CEO Bryan Rafanelli,
Creative Director Billy Evers, an Event Producer and a
Production Manager.
Types of Events
Not-for-Profit, Corporate, Private, Weddings
All our clients look to Rafanelli Events for the highest level
of quality, detail, innovation and service
Years in Business
15 Years
Events Produced
More than 1,200 Events
From small, intimate gatherings to seated dinners for more
than 2,000 people, we have produced events in more than
30 cities, 15 states and five countries
Offices 867 Boylston St 467 10 th Ave 1825 K St NW 777 S Flagler Dr
4 th Floor 2 nd Floor Suite 1000 West Tower
Boston, MA New York, NY Washington, DC Palm Beach, FL
Fee Structure
Our fee structure is based on the number of hours our
team works on your project. We carefully create this
estimated fee based on your specific goals and objectives.
Full Services Overview
AUCTIONS
AUDIO / VISUAL
BRAND BUILDING
BUDGET PLANNING
CAMPAIGN LAUNCHES
CATERING CONSULTATION
COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
CONCEPTING
CONTENT DEVELOPMENT
DÉCOR DESIGN & SELECTION
ENTERTAINMENT
EVENING PROGRAM
FAVORS
REGISTRATION
RENTALS
SPECIAL APPEALS
SPONSOR PACKAGES
STAGE MANAGEMENT
STAGING
STATIONERY
TENTING
TIMELINES
TRANSPORTATION
VENUE SELECTION &
MANAGEMENT
VIDEO/ANIMATION
VIDEOGRAPHY
VOLUNTEER COORDINATION
FLORAL
FUNDRAISING STRATEGY
GRAPHIC DESIGN
GUEST GIFTS
HOTEL ROOM BLOCKS
INCENTIVE TRIPS
INCOME INDUCERS
INVITATIONS
ITINERARIES
LIGHTING AND SOUND
MEETING PLANNING
MESSAGING
ON-SITE MANAGEMENT
PHOTOGRAPHY
PRINT COLLATERAL
RAFFLES
Bryan Rafanelli
Biography
“If party planning is a fine art, then consider Bryan Rafanelli a virtuoso”
WCVB-TV Boston
“The event planner of the year”
Town & Country
Bryan Rafanelli’s exquisite sense of style, attention to detail and ability to transform clients’
visions into unforgettable celebrations have made him a go-to planner for the nation’s most
exclusive and high-profile events. He has produced it all, from elaborate fairytale-themed
fundraising galas for Massachusetts General Hospital for Children to Chelsea Clinton’s “wedding
of the decade” to State Dinners hosted by President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle
Obama.
Rafanelli and his firm, Rafanelli Events, have a simple philosophy: every event is a unique
creative challenge deserving of a one-of-a-kind approach. “My team listens to what you’re
imagining and then comes back with an idea you never expected,” he says. “We hone in on
every last detail so we can always deliver clients the highest level of service.”
The media has taken notice. A recent feature in OUT magazine reads, “For a flawlessly executed
affair to remember, a behind-the-scenes mastermind juggles the details. If you’re lucky, that
person will be event planner Bryan Rafanelli.” And the headline of a recent New York Times
profile –For Wedding Planner, Obsession with Privacy– reinforces that Rafanelli is tight-lipped no
matter whom the client is, letting his work speak for itself.
Rafanelli has been named “Man of the Moment” by Town & Country (2010), a 2011 “Innovator”
and “Event Producer of the Year” by BizBash, one of OUT magazine’s “100 Most Compelling
People in 2010”, a “Trendsetter of the Year” by Modern Bride, a “40 Under 40” by the Boston
Business Journal and “Best in Boston” eight years running by Boston magazine. His events have
been highlighted in: The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, People,
New York, CBSNews.com, VanityFair.com, NewYorker.com and more. Rafanelli has also
appeared as an industry expert on regional and national television programs including: “The
Martha Stewart Show”, ABC’s “Good Morning America”, NBC’s “The Today Show” and as a
regular contributor on New England Cable News’ “Morning Show.”
Rafanelli grew up in a large Rhode Island family, his mother always finding reason to throw
parties for the people she loved. “The sense of community and of bringing people together to
have good time just for ‘good time’s sake’ has always been inside me,” he says. He launched
Rafanelli Events in 1996 as a three-person operation executing only a handful of events a year. It
has quickly evolved into a full-service event design, strategy, planning and production company
with more than 100 events annually in venues around the world. Headquartered in Boston,
Rafanelli Events also has offices in New York City, Washington, DC and Palm Beach.

Billy Evers
Biography
In the eyes of Billy Evers, inspiration is everywhere. Art, theater, fashion and music are
all fair game; they’re the moving parts of what makes an event come together as a
whole. As creative director at Rafanelli Events, Billy takes each occasion that he plans
and carefully balances the details. Whether he’s dreaming up a wedding in Maine or a
multi-million dollar hospital fundraiser, his role is to create, to imagine and to edit, from
the very first client interaction until the final guest goes home. “The events we create are
always evolving,” Billy says. “The tweaking, the adding, the making sure everything’s
precise—it’s something I pride our company on. We’re always perfecting what we do.”
Billy first teamed up with Bryan Rafanelli 10 years ago, only a few years after the
company’s inception in 1996. “I was living in New York, but would come to Boston
socially,” Billy says. “Bryan asked me to help out and things literally went from zero to
100 in six weeks. Before I knew it, I was living here, an extremely active member of
Bryan’s growing team.”
Billy’s background lends itself well to his role at Rafanelli. Prior to joining Bryan’s team,
he worked for a number of years in New York, running a high-end fashion boutique on
Madison Avenue. This experience allowed him to travel the world, exposing him to an
endless range of arts and culture. “All of it, together, has become the perfect resume for
what I do now,” Billy says. “When I see a room, I see it in a theatrical way. I draw from
my love of film, my reservoir of experience in art and fashion, my passion for music.”
All of these influences play an invaluable role in Billy’s creative process. “I get involved
with film, photography, fabric, accessories, lighting, the smell of a place—the entire
sensory experience,” he says. But beyond the individual details, Billy is responsible for
dreaming up a concept. “Rafanelli is unique in terms of how broad our range is and what
we’re capable of doing,” he says. “We’re so not about ‘just a party’. What we’re doing is
a whole new style of event. Concepting and branding meet smart design, value and
integrity. I love the challenge of it all.”

Partial Client List
American Heart Association
American Cancer Society
American Red Cross
Anti-Defamation League
Bain Capital Partners LLC
Baupost Group LLC
The Benjamin School
Beth Israel Medical Deaconess Center
Boston Ballet
Boston College
Boston Magazine
Boston Red Sox Foundation
Boston Symphony Orchestra
Boys and Girls Clubs of Boston
Brigham and Women’s Hospital
Cam Neely Foundation
CHANEL
Children's Hospital Trust
Creative Coalition
Dana Farber Cancer Institute
DeCordova Museum
Democratic National Committee
Emerson College
Ermenegildo Zegna
Faulkner Hospital
Florence Fuller Child Development Centers
Giorgio Armani
Greater Boston Food Bank
Harvard University Art Museums
Harvard University Business School
Harvard University Medical School
Huntington Theatre
Institute of Contemporary Art
Jewish Community Centers
Jewish Family and Children’s Services
J.P. Morgan Chase
Kessler Group
Louis Vuitton North America
Kravis Center for the Performing Arts
Mandarin Oriental
Massachusetts General Hospital
Millennium Pharmaceuticals
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston
New England Patriots
Newton Wellesley Hospital
Peabody Essex Museum
Ralph Lauren
Ritz Carlton
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer
Foundation
S.R. Weiner & Associates
The Connors Family Office
The Swan Group
Trinity Church of Boston
Tsoi/Kobus & Associates
Tudor Investments
Urban Land Institute
U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum
U.S. State Department
Valentino
Westin Hotels
Woodmark Group
YMCA
