From: Alain Forget 
Sent: 11/18/2016 11:18:14 AM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: interesting 
Importance: High 
no,interesting to figure out where it is heading... .the funny side it was at the vatican 
On Nov 18, 2016, at 12:14 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
your view? 
On Fri, Nov 18, 2016 at 7:12 AM, Alain Forget - > wrote: 
Donald Trump's newly named chief strategist and senior counselor, Steve Bannon, laid 
out his global nationalist vision in unusually in-depth remarks delivered by Skype to a 
conference held inside the Vatican in the summer of 2014. 
Well before victories for Brexit and Trump seemed possible, Bannon declared there was 
a "global tea party movement" and praised European far-right parties like Great 
Britain's UKIP and France's National Front. Bannon also suggested that a racist 
element in far-right parties "all gets kind of washed out," that the West was facing a 
"crisis of capitalism" after losing its "Judeo-Christian foundation," and he blasted "crony 
capitalists" in Washington for failing to prosecute bank executives over the financial 
crisis. 
The remarks — beamed into a small conference room in a 15th-century marble palace in 
a secluded corner of the Vatican — were part of a 5o-minute Q&A during a conference 
focused on poverty hosted by the Human Dignity Institute, which BuzzFeed News 
attended as part of its coverage of the rise of Europe's religious right. The group was 
founded by Benjamin Harnwell, a longtime aide to Conservative member of the 
European Parliament Nirj Deva to promote a "Christian voice" in European politics. The 
group has ties to some of the most conservative factions inside the Catholic 
Church; Cardinal Raymond Burke, one of the most vocal critics of Pope Francis who 
was ousted from a senior Vatican position in 2014, is chair of the group's advisory 
board. 
BuzzFeed News originally posted a transcript beginning 90 seconds into the then-
Breitbart News chairman's remarks because microphone placement made the opening 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029042 
mostly unintelligible, but we have completed the transcript from a on 
YouTube. You can hear the whole recording at the bottom of the post. 
Here is what he said, unedited: 
Steve Bannon: Thank you very much Benjamin, and I appreciate you guys including us 
in this. We're speaking from Los Angeles today, right across the street from our 
headquarters in Los Angeles. Um. I want to talk about wealth creation and what wealth 
creation really can achieve and maybe take it in a slightly different direction, because I 
believe the world, and particularly the Judeo-Christian west, is in a crisis. And it's really 
the organizing principle of how we built Breitbart News to really be a platform to bring 
news and information to people throughout the world. Principally in the west, but we're 
expanding internationally to let people understand the depths of this crisis, and it is a 
crisis both of capitalism but really of the underpinnings of the Judeo-Christian west in 
our beliefs. 
It's ironic, I think, that we're talking today at exactly, tomorrow, roo years ago, at the 
exact moment we're talking, the assassination took place in Sarajevo of Archduke Franz 
Ferdinand that led to the end of the Victorian era and the beginning of the bloodiest 
century in mankind's history. Just to put it in perspective, with the assassination that 
took place roo years ago tomorrow in Sarajevo, the world was at total peace. There was 
trade, there was globalization, there was technological transfer, the High Church of 
England and the Catholic Church and the Christian faith was predominant throughout 
Europe of practicing Christians. Seven weeks later, I think there were 5 million men in 
uniform and within 30 days there were over a million casualties. 
That war triggered a century of barbaric — unparalleled in mankind's history — virtually 
180 to 200 million people were killed in the 20th century, and I believe that, you know, 
hundreds of years from now when they look back, we're children of that: We're children 
of that barbarity. This will be looked at almost as a new Dark Age. 
But the thing that got us out of it, the organizing principle that met this, was not just the 
heroism of our people — whether it was French resistance fighters, whether it was the 
Polish resistance fighters, or it's the young men from Kansas City or the Midwest who 
stormed the beaches of Normandy, commandos in England that fought with the Royal Air 
Force, that fought this great war, really the Judeo-Christian West versus atheists, right? 
The underlying principle is an enlightened form of capitalism, that capitalism really gave 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029043 
us the wherewithal. It kind of organized and built the materials needed to support, 
whether it's the Soviet Union, England, the United States, and eventually to take back 
continental Europe and to beat back a barbaric empire in the Far East. 
That capitalism really generated tremendous wealth. And that wealth was really 
distributed among a middle class, a rising middle class, people who come from really 
working-class environments and created what we really call a Pax Americana. It was 
many, many years and decades of peace. And I believe we've come partly offtrack in the 
years since the fall of the Soviet Union and we're starting now in the 21st century, which I 
believe, strongly, is a crisis both of our church, a crisis of our faith, a crisis of the West, a 
crisis of capitalism. 
"I believe we've come partly offtrack in the 
years since the fall of the Soviet Union and 
we're starting now in the 21st century, which I 
believe, strongly, is a crisis both of our church, 
a crisis of our faith, a crisis of the West, a 
crisis of capitalism." 
And we're at the very beginning stages of a very brutal and bloody conflict, of which if the 
people in this room, the people in the church, do not bind together and really form what I 
feel is an aspect of the church militant, to really be able to not just stand with our beliefs, 
but to fight for our beliefs against this new barbarity that's starting, that will completely 
eradicate everything that we've been bequeathed over the last 2,000, 2,500 years. 
Now, what I mean by that specifically: I think that you're seeing three kinds of converging 
tendencies: One is a form of capitalism that is taken away from the underlying spiritual 
and moral foundations of Christianity and, really, Judeo-Christian belief. 
I see that every day. I'm a very practical, pragmatic capitalist. I was trained at Goldman 
Sachs, I went to Harvard Business School, I was as hard-nosed a capitalist as you get. I 
specialized in media, in investing in media companies, and it's a very, very tough 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029044 
environment. And you've had a fairly good track record. So I don't want this to kinda 
sound namby-pamby, "Let's all hold hands and sing `Kumbaya' around capitalism." 
But there's a strand of capitalism today — two strands of it, that are very disturbing. 
One is state-sponsored capitalism. And that's the capitalism you see in China and Russia. 
I believe it's what Holy Father [Pope Francis] has seen for most of his life in places like 
Argentina, where you have this kind of crony capitalism of people that are involved with 
these military powers-that-be in the government, and it forms a brutal form of capitalism 
that is really about creating wealth and creating value for a very small subset of people. 
And it doesn't spread the tremendous value creation throughout broader distribution 
patterns that were seen really in the 20th century. 
The second form of capitalism that I feel is almost as disturbing, is what I call the Ayn 
Rand or the Objectivist School of libertarian capitalism. And, look, I'm a big believer in a 
lot of libertarianism. I have many many friends that's a very big part of the conservative 
movement — whether it's the UKIP movement in England, it's many of the underpinnings 
of the populist movement in Europe, and particularly in the United States. 
However, that form of capitalism is quite different when you really look at it to what I call 
the "enlightened capitalism" of the Judeo-Christian West. It is a capitalism that really 
looks to make people commodities, and to objectify people, and to use them almost — as 
many of the precepts of Marx — and that is a form of capitalism, particularly to a younger 
generation [that] they're really finding quite attractive. And if they don't see another 
alternative, it's going to be an alternative that they gravitate to under this kind of rubric of 
“personal freedom." 
"Look at what's happening in ISIS ... look at 
the sophistication of which they've taken the 
tools of capitalism ... at what they've done 
with Twitter and Facebook." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029045 
The other tendency is an immense secularization of the West. And I know we've talked 
about secularization for a long time, but if you look at younger people, especially 
millennials under 30, the overwhelming drive of popular culture is to absolutely 
secularize this rising iteration. 
Now that call converges with something we have to face, and it's a very unpleasant topic, 
but we are in an outright war against jihadist Islamic fascism. And this war is, I think, 
metastasizing far quicker than governments can handle it. 
If you look at what's happening in ISIS, which is the Islamic State of Syria and the Levant, 
that is now currently forming the caliphate that is having a military drive on Baghdad, if 
you look at the sophistication of which they've taken the tools of capitalism. If you look at 
what they've done with Twitter and Facebook and modern ways to fundraise, and to use 
crowdsourcing to fund, besides all the access to weapons, over the last couple days they 
have had a radical program of taking kids and trying to turn them into bombers. They 
have driven 50,000 Christians out of a town near the Kurdish border. We have video that 
we're putting up later today on Breitbart where they've took 50 hostages and thrown them 
off a cliff in Iraq. 
That war is expanding and it's metastasizing to sub-Saharan Africa. We have Boko Haram 
and other groups that will eventually partner with ISIS in this global war, and it is, 
unfortunately, something that we're going to have to face, and we're going to have to face 
very quickly. 
So I think the discussion of, should we put a cap on wealth creation and distribution? It's 
something that should be at the heart of every Christian that is a capitalist — "What is the 
purpose of whatever I'm doing with this wealth? What is the purpose of what I'm doing 
with the ability that God has given us, that divine providence has given us to actually be a 
creator of jobs and a creator of wealth?" 
I think it really behooves all of us to really take a hard look and make sure that we are 
reinvesting that back into positive things. But also to make sure that we understand that 
we're at the very beginning stages of a global conflict, and if we do not bind together as 
partners with others in other countries that this conflict is only going to metastasize. 
They have a Twitter account up today, ISIS does, about turning the United States into a 
"river of blood" if it comes in and tries to defend the city of Baghdad. And trust me, that is 
going to come to Europe. That is going to come to Central Europe, it's going to come to 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029046 
Western Europe, it's going to come to the United Kingdom. And so I think we are in a 
crisis of the underpinnings of capitalism, and on top of that we're now, I believe, at the 
beginning stages of a global war against Islamic fascism. 
"With all the baggage that those [right-wing] 
groups bring — and trust me, a lot of them 
bring a lot of baggage, both ethnically and 
racially— but we think that will all be worked 
through with time." 
Benjamin Harnwell, Human Dignity Institute: Thank you, Steve. That was a 
fascinating, fascinating overview. I am particularly struck by your argument, then, that in 
fact, capitalism would spread around the world based on the Judeo-Christian foundation 
is, in fact, something that can create peace through peoples rather than antagonism, 
which is often a point not sufficiently appreciated. Before I turn behind me to take a 
question — 
Bannon: One thing I want to make sure of, if you look at the leaders of capitalism at that 
time, when capitalism was I believe at its highest flower and spreading its benefits to most 
of mankind, almost all of those capitalists were strong believers in the Judeo-Christian 
West. They were either active participants in the Jewish faith, they were active 
participants in the Christians' faith, and they took their beliefs, and the underpinnings of 
their beliefs was manifested in the work they did. And I think that's incredibly important 
and something that would really become unmoored. I can see this on Wall Street today — 
I can see this with the securitization of everything is that, everything is looked at as a 
securitization opportunity. People are looked at as commodities. I don't believe that our 
forefathers had that same belief. 
Harnwell: Over the course of this conference we've heard from various points of view 
regarding alleviation of poverty. We've heard from the center-left perspective, we've 
heard from the socialist perspective, we've heard from the Christian democrat, if you will, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029047 
perspective. What particularly interests me about your point of view Steve, to talk 
specifically about your work, Breitbart is very close to the tea party movement. So I'm just 
wondering whether you could tell me about if in the current flow of contemporary politics 
— first tell us a little bit about Breitbart, what the mission is, and then tell me about the 
reach that you have and then could you say a little bit about the current dynamic of what's 
going on at the moment in the States. 
Bannon: Outside of Fox News and the Drudge Report, we're the third-largest 
conservative news site and, quite frankly, we have a bigger global reach than even Fox. 
And that's why we're expanding so much internationally. 
Look, we believe — strongly — that there is a global tea party movement. We've seen that. 
We were the first group to get in and start reporting on things like UKIP and Front 
National and other center right. With all the baggage that those groups bring — and trust 
me, a lot of them bring a lot of baggage, both ethnically and racially — but we think that 
will all be worked through with time. 
The central thing that binds that all together is a center-right populist movement of really 
the middle class, the working men and women in the world who are just tired of being 
dictated to by what we call the party of Davos. A group of kind of — we're not conspiracy-
theory guys, but there's certainly — and I could see this when I worked at Goldman Sachs 
— there are people in New York that feel closer to people in London and in Berlin than 
they do to people in Kansas and in Colorado, and they have more of this elite mentality 
that they're going to dictate to everybody how the world's going to be run. 
I will tell you that the working men and women of Europe and Asia and the United States 
and Latin America don't believe that. They believe they know what's best for how they will 
comport their lives. They think they know best about how to raise their families and how 
to educate their families. So I think you're seeing a global reaction to centralized 
government, whether that government is in Beijing or that government is in Washington, 
DC, or that government is in Brussels. So we are the platform for the voice of that. 
"Putin's ... very, very very intelligent. I can see this in the United States where he's 
playing very strongly to social conservatives about his message about more traditional 
values, so I think it's something that we have to be very much on guard of." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029048 
Now, with that, we are strong capitalists. And we believe in the benefits of capitalism. 
And, particularly, the harder-nosed the capitalism, the better. However, like I said, there's 
two strands of capitalism that we're quite concerned about. 
One is crony capitalism, or what we call state-controlled capitalism, and that's the big 
thing the tea party is fighting in the United States, and really the tea party's biggest fight 
is not with the left, because we're not there yet. The biggest fight the tea party has today is 
just like UKIP. UKIP's biggest fight is with the Conservative Party. 
The tea party in the United States' biggest fight is with the the Republican establishment, 
which is really a collection of crony capitalists that feel that they have a different set of 
rules of how they're going to comport themselves and how they're going to run things. 
And, quite frankly, it's the reason that the United States' financial situation is so dire, 
particularly our balance sheet. We have virtually a hundred trillion dollars of unfunded 
liabilities. That is all because you've had this kind of crony capitalism in Washington, DC. 
The rise of Breitbart is directly tied to being the voice of that center-right opposition. And, 
quite frankly, we're winning many, many victories. 
On the social conservative side, we're the voice of the anti-abortion movement, the voice 
of the traditional marriage movement, and I can tell you we're winning victory after 
victory after victory. Things are turning around as people have a voice and have a 
platform of which they can use. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029049 
Kirk Irwin / Getty Images 
Harnwell: The third-largest conservative news website is something to be extremely 
impressed by. Can you tell for the people here who aren't within the Anglosphere and they 
might not follow American domestic politics at the moment — there seems to be a 
substantial sea change going on at the moment in Middle America. And the leader of the 
majority party, Eric Cantor, was deselected a couple of weeks ago by a tea party 
candidate. What does that mean for the state of domestic politics in America at the 
moment? 
Bannon: For everybody in your audience, this is one of the most monumental — first off, 
it's the biggest election upset in the history of the American republic. Eric Cantor was the 
House majority leader and raised $10 million. He spent, between himself and outside 
groups, $8 million to hold a congressional district. He ran against a professor who was an 
evangelical Christian and a libertarian economist. He ran against a professor who raised 
in total $175,000. In fact, the bills from Eric Cantor's campaign at a elite steak house in 
Washington, DC, was over $200,000. So they spent more than $200,000 over the course 
of the campaign wining and dining fat cats at a steak house in Washington than the entire 
opposition had to run. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029050 
Now, Eric Cantor, it was a He lost 57-43, and not one — outside of Breitbart, we 
covered this for six months, day in and day out — not one news site — not Fox News, not 
Politico, no sites picked this up. And the reason that this guy won is quite simple: Middle-
class people and working-class people are tired of people like Eric Cantor who say they're 
conservative selling out their interests every day to crony capitalists. 
"That center-right revolt is really a global 
revolt. I think you're going to see it in Latin 
America, I think you're going to see it in Asia, 
I think you've already seen it in India." 
And you're seeing that whether that was UKIP and Nigel Farage in the United Kingdom, 
whether it's these groups in the Low Countries in Europe, whether it's in France, there's a 
new tea party in Germany. The theme is all the same. And the theme is middle-class and 
working-class people — they're saying, "Hey, I'm working harder than I've ever worked. 
I'm getting less benefits than I'm ever getting through this, I'm incurring less wealth 
myself, and I'm seeing a system of fat cats who say they're conservative and say they back 
capitalist principles, but all they're doing is binding with corporatists." Right? 
Corporatists, to garner all the benefits for themselves. 
And that center-right revolt is really a global revolt. I think you're going to see it in Latin 
America, I think you're going to see it in Asia, I think you've already seen it in India. 
Modi's great victory was very much based on these Reaganesque principles, so I think this 
is a global revolt, and we are very fortunate and proud to be the news site that is reporting 
that throughout the world. 
Harnwell: I think it's important to understand the distinction that you're drawing here 
between what can be understood as authentic, free-market capitalism as a means of 
promoting wealth that [unintelligible] involves everybody with a form of crony capitalism 
which simply benefits a certain class. And we've watched over the course of our 
conference, we've watched two video segments produced by the Acton Institute about 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029051 
how development aid is spent internationally and how that can be driven away from — it 
damages people on the ground but it also perpetuates a governing class. And the point 
that you're mentioning here, that I think that you're saying has driven almost a revolution 
movement in America, is the same phenomenon of what's going on in the developing 
world, which is a concept of government which is no longer doing what it is morally 
bound to do but has become corrupt and self-serving. So it's effectively the sa—
Bannon: It's exactly the same. Currently, if you read The Economist, you read 
the Financial Times this week, you'll see there's a relatively obscure agency in the federal 
government that is engaged in a huge fight that may lead to a government shutdown. It's 
called the Export-Import Bank. And for years, it was a bank that helped finance things 
that other banks wouldn't do. And what's happening over time is that it's metastasized to 
be a cheap form of financing to General Electric and to Boeing and to other large 
corporations. You get this financing from other places if they wanted to, but they're 
putting this onto the middle-class taxpayers to support this. 
"I'm not an expert in this, but it seems that [right-wing parties] have had some aspects 
that may be anti-Semitic or racial ... My point is that over time it all gets kind of washed 
out, right?" 
And the tea party is using this as an example of the cronyism. General Electric and these 
major corporations that are in bed with the federal government are not what we'd 
consider free-enterprise capitalists. We're backers of entrepreneurial capitalists. They're 
not. They're what we call corporatist. They want to have more and more monopolistic 
power and they're doing that kind of convergence with big government. And so the fight 
here — and that's why the media's been very late to this party — but the fight you're 
seeing is between entrepreneur capitalism, and the Acton Institute is a tremendous 
supporter of, and the people like the corporatists that are closer to the people like we 
think in Beijing and Moscow than they are to the entrepreneurial capitalist spirit of the 
United States. 
Harnwell: Thanks, Steve. I'm going to turn around now, as I'm sure we have some great 
questions from the floor. Who has the first question then? 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029052 
Bannon: First of all, Benjamin, I can tell you I could hardly recognize you, you're so 
cleaned up you are for the conference. 
[Laughter] 
Questioner: Hello, my name is Deborah Lubov. I'm a Vatican correspondent for Zenit 
news agency, for their English edition. I have some experience working in New York — I 
was working for PricewaterhouseCoopers auditing investment banks, one of which was 
Goldman Sachs. And considering this conference is on poverty, I'm curious — from your 
point of view especially, your experience in the investment banking world — what 
concrete measures do you think they should be doing to combat, prevent this 
phenomenon? We know that various sums of money are used in all sorts of ways and they 
do have different initiatives, but in order to concretely counter this epidemic now, what 
are your thoughts? 
"For Christians, and particularly for those who believe in the underpinnings of the 
Judeo-Christian West, I don't believe that we should have a [financial] bailout." 
Bannon: That's a great question. The 2008 crisis, I think the financial crisis — which, by 
the way, I don't think we've come through — is really driven I believe by the greed, much 
of it driven by the greed of the investment banks. My old firm, Goldman Sachs — 
traditionally the best banks are leveraged 8:1. When we had the financial crisis in 2008, 
the investment banks were leveraged 35:1. Those rules had specifically been changed by a 
guy named Hank Paulson. He was secretary of Treasury. As chairman of Goldman Sachs, 
he had gone to Washington years before and asked for those changes. That made the 
banks not really investment banks, but made them hedge funds — and highly susceptible 
to changes in liquidity. And so the crisis of 2008 was, quite frankly, really never recovered 
from in the United States. It's one of the reasons last quarter you saw 2.9% negative 
growth in a quarter. So the United States economy is in very, very tough shape. 
And one of the reasons is that we've never really gone and dug down and sorted through 
the problems of 2008. Particularly the fact — think about it — not one criminal charge has 
ever been brought to any bank executive associated with 2008 crisis. And in fact, it gets 
worse. No bonuses and none of their equity was taken. So part of the prime drivers of the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029053 
wealth that they took in the 15 years leading up to the crisis was not hit at all, and I think 
that's one of the fuels of this populist revolt that we're seeing as the tea party. So I think 
there are many, many measures, particularly about getting the banks on better footing, 
making them address all the liquid assets they have. I think you need a real clean-up of 
the banks balance sheets. 
In addition, I think you really need to go back and make banks do what they do: 
Commercial banks lend money, and investment banks invest in entrepreneurs and to get 
away from this trading — you know, the hedge fund securitization, which they've all 
become basically trading operations and securitizations and not put capital back and 
really grow businesses and to grow the economy. So I think it's a whole area that just — 
and I will tell you, the underpinning of this populist revolt is the financial crisis of 2008. 
That revolt, the way that it was dealt with, the way that the people who ran the banks and 
ran the hedge funds have never really been held accountable for what they did, has fueled 
much of the anger in the tea party movement in the United States. 
Questioner: Thank you. 
Bannon: Great question. 
Questioner: Hello, Mr. Bannon. I'm Mario Fantini, a Vermonter living in Vienna, 
Austria. You began describing some of the trends you're seeing worldwide, very 
dangerous trends, worry trends. Another movement that I've been seeing grow and 
spread in Europe, unfortunately, is what can only be described as tribalist or neo-nativist 
movement — they call themselves Identitarians. These are mostly young, working-class, 
populist groups, and they're teaching self-defense classes, but also they are arguing 
against — and quite effectively, I might add — against capitalism and global financial 
institutions, etc. How do we counteract this stuff? Because they're appealing to a lot of 
young people at a very visceral level, especially with the ethnic and racial stuff. 
Bannon: I didn't hear the whole question, about the tribalist? 
"One of the committees in Congress said to the Justice Department, 35 [bank] executives, 
I believe, that they should have criminal indictments against — not one of those has ever 
been followed up on." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029054 
Questioner: Very simply put, there's a growing movement among young people here in 
Europe, in France and in Austria and elsewhere, and they're arguing very effectively 
against Wall Street institutions and they're also appealing to people on an ethnic and 
racial level. And I was just wondering what you would recommend to counteract these 
movements, which are growing. 
Bannon: One of the reasons that you can understand how they're being fueled is that 
they're not seeing the benefits of capitalism. I mean particularly — and I think it's 
particularly more advanced in Europe than it is in the United States, but in the United 
States it's getting pretty advanced — is that when you have this kind of crony capitalism, 
you have a different set of rules for the people that make the rules. It's this partnership of 
big government and corporatists. I think it starts to fuel, particularly as you start to see 
negative job creation. If you go back, in fact, and look at the United States' GDP, you look 
at a bunch of Europe. If you take out government spending, you know, we've had negative 
growth on a real basis for over a decade. 
And that all trickles down to the man in the street. If you look at people's lives, and 
particularly millennials, look at people under 30 — people under 30, there's 50% really 
under employment of people in the United States, which is probably the most advanced 
economy in the West, and it gets worse in Europe. 
I think in Spain it's something like 50 or 6o% of the youth under 30 are underemployed. 
And that means the decade of their twenties, which is where you have to learn a skill, 
where you have to learn a craft, where you really start to get comfortable in your 
profession, you're taking that away from the entire generation. That's only going to fuel 
tribalism, that's only going to fuel [unintelligible]... That's why to me, it's incumbent upon 
freedom-loving people to make sure that we sort out these governments and make sure 
that we sort out particularly this crony capitalism so that the benefits become more of this 
entrepreneurial spirit and that can flow back to working-class and middle-class people. 
Because if not, we're going to pay a huge price for this. You can already start to see it. 
Questioner: I have a question, because you worked on Wall Street. What is the opinion 
there on whether they think bank bailouts are justified? Is there a Christian-centered 
[unintelligible] that they think should be bailed out? The crisis starts earlier than 2008. 
What was the precedent then? What was the feeling on Wall Street when they bailed out 
the banks? How should Christians feel about advocating or being against that? 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029055 
Bannon: I think one is about responsibility. For Christians, and particularly for those 
who believe in the underpinnings of the Judeo-Christian West, I don't believe that we 
should have a bailout. I think the bailouts in 2008 were wrong. And I think, you look in 
hindsight, it was a lot of misinformation that was presented about the bailouts of the 
banks in the West. 
And look at the [unintelligible] it. Middle-class taxpayers, people that are working-class 
people, right, people making incomes under $50,000 and $6o,000, it was the burden of 
those taxpayers, right, that bailed out the elites. And let's think about it for a second. 
Here's how capitalism metastasized, is that all the burdens put on the working-class 
people who get none of the upside. All of the upside goes to the crony capitalists. 
The bailouts were absolutely outrageous, and here's why: It bailed out a group of 
shareholders and executives who were specifically accountable. The shareholders were 
accountable for one simple reason: They allowed this to go wrong without changing 
management. And the management team of this. And we know this now from 
congressional investigations, we know it from independent investigations, this is not 
some secret conspiracy. This is kind of in plain sight. 
In fact, one of the committees in Congress said to the Justice Department 35 executives, I 
believe, that they should have criminal indictments against — not one of those has ever 
been followed up on. Because even with the Democrats, right, in power, there's a sense 
between the law firms, and the accounting firms, and the investment banks, and their 
stooges on Capitol Hill, they looked the other way. 
So you can understand why middle class people having a tough go of it making $5o or 
$60 thousand a year and see their taxes go up, and they see that their taxes are going to 
pay for government sponsored bailouts, what you've created is really a free option. You 
say to this investment banking, create a free option for bad behavior. In otherwise all the 
upside goes to the hedge funds and the investment bank, and to the crony capitalist with 
stock increases and bonus increases. And their downside is limited, because middle class 
people are going to come and bail them out with tax dollars. 
And that's what I think is fueling this populist revolt. Whether that revolt is in the 
midlands of England, or whether it's in Middle America. And I think people are fed up 
with it. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029056 
And I think that's why you're seeing — when you read the media says, "tea party is losing, 
losing elections," that is all BS. The elections we don't win, we're forcing those crony 
capitalists to come and admit that they're not going to do this again. The whole narrative 
in Washington has been changed by this populist revolt that we call the grassroots of the 
tea party movement. 
And it's specifically because those bailouts were completely and totally unfair. It didn't 
make those financial institutions any stronger, and it bailed out a bunch of people — by 
the way, and these are people that have all gone to Yale, and Harvard, they went to the 
finest institutions in the West. They should have known better. 
And by the way: It's all the institutions of the accounting firms, the law firms, the 
investment banks, the consulting firms, the elite of the elite, the educated elite, they 
understood what they were getting into, forcibly took all the benefits from it and then 
look to the government, went hat in hand to the government to be bailed out. And they've 
never been held accountable today. Trust me — they are going to be held accountable. 
You're seeing this populist movement called the tea party in the United States. 
Harnwell: Okay, I think we've got time for just one or two more questions for Stephen 
K. Bannon, chairman of Breitbart Media, third-largest news organization in the States. I 
know you're a very, very busy man, so we're very grateful for the time that you've agreed 
to put aside for this, to close this conference. 
"I certainly think secularism has sapped the 
strength of the Judeo-Christian West to defend 
its ideals, right?" 
Bannon: I'm never too busy to share with a group that can do as much good as you guys 
can. 
Questioner: What do you think is the major threat today, to the Judeo-Christian 
Civilization? Secularism, or the Muslim world? In my humble opinion, they're just trying 
to defend themselves from our cultural invasion. Thank you. 
[Question restated by Harnwell] 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029057 
Bannon: It's a great question. I certainly think secularism has sapped the strength of the 
Judeo-Christian West to defend its ideals, right? 
If you go back to your home countries and your proponent of the defense of the Judeo-
Christian West and its tenets, often times, particularly when you deal with the elites, 
you're looked at as someone who is quite odd. So it has kind of sapped the strength. 
But I strongly believe that whatever the causes of the current drive to the caliphate was — 
and we can debate them, and people can try to deconstruct them — we have to face a very 
unpleasant fact: And that unpleasant fact is that there is a major war brewing, a war that's 
already global. It's going global in scale, and today's technology, today's media, today's 
access to weapons of mass destruction, it's going to lead to a global conflict that I believe 
has to be confronted today. Every day that we refuse to look at this as what it is, and the 
scale of it, and really the viciousness of it, will be a day where you will rue that we didn't 
act [unintelligible]. 
"The way that the people who ran the banks 
and ran the hedge funds have never really been 
held accountable for what they did has fueled 
much of the anger in the tea party movement in 
the United States." 
Questioner: Thank you very much. I'm [unintelligible]. I come from Slovakia. This is 
actually the source of my two very quick questions. Thank you very much for the work 
that you do to promote the Judeo-Christian values in the world. I really appreciate it, and 
I also feel that the danger is very high. I have two minor questions, because you have 
mentioned, in terms of UKIP and Front National [unintelligible]. From the European 
perspective, listening to the language which has become more and more radical from 
these two parties, especially before the European Parliament elections, I'm just 
wondering what are your plans on how to help these partners from Europe to maybe 
focus on the value issues and not with populist? And also it goes in terms — you have 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029058 
mentioned the involvement of state in capitalism as one of the big dangers. But these two 
parties you've mentioned, they actually have close ties with Putin, who is the promoter of 
this big danger, so I'd like to know your thoughts about this and how you're going to deal 
with it. 
Bannon: Could you summarize that for me? 
Harnwell: The first question was, you'd reference the Front National and UKIP as 
having elements that are tinged with the racial aspect amidst their voter profile, and the 
questioner was asking how you intend to deal with that aspect. 
Bannon: I don't believe I said UKIP in that. I was really talking about the parties on the 
continent, Front National and other European parties. 
I'm not an expert in this, but it seems that they have had some aspects that may be anti-
Semitic or racial. By the way, even in the tea party, we have a broad movement like this, 
and we've been criticized, and they try to make the tea party as being racist, etc., which 
it's not. But there's always elements who turn up at these things, whether it's militia guys 
or whatever. Some that are fringe organizations. My point is that over time it all gets kind 
of washed out, right? People understand what pulls them together, and the people on the 
margins I think get marginalized more and more. 
I believe that you'll see this in the center-right populist movement in continental Europe. 
I've spent quite a bit of time with UKIP, and I can say to you that I've never seen anything 
at all with UKIP that even comes close to that. I think they've done a very good job of 
policing themselves to really make sure that people including the British National Front 
and others were not included in the party, and I think you've seen that also with tea party 
groups, where some people would show up and were kind of marginal members of the tea 
party, and the tea party did a great job of policing themselves early on. And I think that's 
why when you hear charges of racism against the tea party, it doesn't stick with the 
American people, because they really understand. 
I think when you look at any kind of revolution — and this is a revolution — you always 
have some groups that are disparate. I think that will all burn away over time and you'll 
see more of a mainstream center-right populist movement. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029059 
"Because at the end of the day, I think that Putin and his cronies are really a 
kleptocracy, that are really an imperialist power that want to expand." 
Question: Obviously, before the European elections the two parties had a clear link to 
Putin. If one of the representatives of the dangers of capitalism is the state involvement in 
capitalism, so, I see there, also Marine Le Pen campaigning in Moscow with Putin, and 
also UKIP strongly defending Russian positions in geopolitical terms. 
[Harnwell restates, but unintelligible] 
Harnwell: These two parties have both been cultivating President Putin [unintelligible]. 
Bannon: I think it's a little bit more complicated. When Vladimir Putin, when you really 
look at some of the underpinnings of some of his beliefs today, a lot of those come from 
what I call Eurasianism; he's got an adviser who harkens back to Julius Evola and 
different writers of the early 20th century who are really the supporters of what's called 
the traditionalist movement, which really eventually metastasized into Italian fascism. A 
lot of people that are traditionalists are attracted to that. 
One of the reasons is that they believe that at least Putin is standing up for traditional 
institutions, and he's trying to do it in a form of nationalism — and I think that people, 
particularly in certain countries, want to see the sovereignty for their country, they want 
to see nationalism for their country. They don't believe in this kind of pan-European 
Union or they don't believe in the centralized government in the United States. They'd 
rather see more of a states-based entity that the founders originally set up where 
freedoms were controlled at the local level. 
"You're seeing a global reaction to centralized 
government, whether that government is in 
Beijing or that government is in Washington, 
DC, or that government is in Brussels. So we 
are the platform for the voice of that." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029060 
I'm not justifying Vladimir Putin and the kleptocracy that he represents, because he 
eventually is the state capitalist of kleptocracy. However, we the Judeo-Christian West 
really have to look at what he's talking about as far as traditionalism goes — particularly 
the sense of where it supports the underpinnings of nationalism — and I happen to think 
that the individual sovereignty of a country is a good thing and a strong thing. I think 
strong countries and strong nationalist movements in countries make strong neighbors, 
and that is really the building blocks that built Western Europe and the United States, 
and I think it's what can see us forward. 
You know, Putin's been quite an interesting character. He's also very, very, very 
intelligent. I can see this in the United States where he's playing very strongly to social 
conservatives about his message about more traditional values, so I think it's something 
that we have to be very much on guard of. Because at the end of the day, I think that Putin 
and his cronies are really a kleptocracy, that are really an imperialist power that want to 
expand. However, I really believe that in this current environment, where you're facing a 
potential new caliphate that is very aggressive that is really a situation — I'm not saying 
we can put it on a back burner — but I think we have to deal with first things first. 
Questioner: One of my questions has to do with how the West should be responding to 
radical Islam. How, specifically, should we as the West respond to Jihadism without 
losing our own soul? Because we can win the war and lose ourselves at the same time. 
How should the West respond to radical Islam and not lose itself in the process? 
Bannon: From a perspective — this may be a little more militant than others. I think 
definitely you're going to need an aspect that is [unintelligible]. I believe you should take 
a very, very, very aggressive stance against radical Islam. And I realize there are other 
aspects that are not as militant and not as aggressive and that's fine. 
If you look back at the long history of the Judeo-Christian West struggle against Islam, I 
believe that our forefathers kept their stance, and I think they did the right thing. I think 
they kept it out of the world, whether it was at Vienna, or Tours, or other places... It 
bequeathed to use the great institution that is the church of the West. 
And I would ask everybody in the audience today, because you really are the movers and 
drivers and shakers and thought leaders in the Catholic Church today, is to think, when 
people 500 years from now are going to think about today, think about the actions you've 
taken — and I believe everyone associated with the church and associated with the Judeo-
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029061 
Christian West that believes in the underpinnings of that and believes in the precepts of 
that and want to see that bequeathed to other generations down the road as it was 
bequeathed to us, particularly as you're in a city like Rome, and in a place like the Vatican, 
see what's been bequeathed to us — ask yourself, 500 years from today, what are they 
going to say about me? What are they going to say about what I did at the beginning 
stages of this crisis? 
Because it is a crisis, and it's not going away. You don't have to take my word for it. All 
you have to do is read the news every day, see what's coming up, see what they're putting 
on Twitter, what they're putting on Facebook, see what's on CNN, what's on BBC. See 
what's happening, and you will see we're in a war of immense proportions. It's very easy 
to play to our baser instincts, and we can't do that. But our forefathers didn't do it either. 
And they were able to stave this off, and they were able to defeat it, and they were able to 
bequeath to us a church and a civilization that really is the flower of mankind, so I think 
it's incumbent on all of us to do what I call a gut check, to really think about what our role 
is in this battle that's before us. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029062 
