From: 
Sent: 
To: 
6/18/2011 2:59:52 PM 
Jeffrey Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Importance: High 
DOMINQUE STRAUSS-KAHN ARRESTED, NOT BECAUSE HE RAPED A MAID, BUT 
BECAUSE HE HAD EVIDENCE US HAS NO GOLD IN FORT KNOX. 
Posted by admin on Jun 3, 2011 in News I 0 comments 
V.4110". 
A startling story published by the European Union Times, could be the one of the worlds biggest conspiracy theories, a plot for a movie or a 
frightening scenario for the U.S. and world economy. 
Dominique Strauss Kahn 
According to the on-line publication a new report prepared for Russian Prime Minister Putin by the FederalSecurity Service(FSB) says that 
former International Monetary Fund (IMF) ChiefDominique Strauss-Kahnwas charged and jailed in the US forsex crimeson May 14 after his 
discovery that all of thegoldheld in theUnited States Bullion Depositorylocated at Fort Knox was missing and/or unaccounted for. 
According to this FSBsecretreport, Strauss-Kahn had become increasingly concerned earlier this month after the United States began stalling 
its pledged delivery to the IMF of191.3 tons of goldagreed to under theSecond Amendmentof the Articles of Agreement signed by the 
Executive Board in April 1978 that were to be sold to fund what are called Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) as an alternative to what are called 
reserve currencies. 
This FSB report says that when Strauss-Kahn raised his concerns with Americangovernment officials close to President Obama he was 
contacted by rogue elements within the CIA who provided him firm evidence that all of thegoldreported to be held by the US was gone. 
Upon Strauss-Kahn receiving the CIA evidence, the report said, he made immediate arrangements to leave the US for Paris, but when 
contacted by agents working for Frances General Directorate for External Security (DGSE) that American authorities were seeking his 
capture he fled to New York CitysJFK airportfollowing these agents directive not to take his cell-phone because US police could track his 
exact location. 
Once Strauss-Kahn safely boarded anAir France flightto Paris, the FSB report says, he made a fatal mistake by calling the hotel from a phone 
on the plane and asking them to forwarded the cell-phone he had been told to leave behind to his French residence, after which US agents 
were able to track and apprehend him. 
Within the past fortnight, the report continues, Strauss-Kahn reached out to his close friend and top Egyptian banker Mahmoud Abdel Salam 
Omar to retrieve from the US the evidence given to him by the CIA. Omar, however, and exactly like Strauss-Kahn before him, has been 
chargedby the US with a sex crime against aluxury hotelmaid, a charge the FSB labels as beyond belief as Omar is 74-years-old and a devout 
Muslim. 
In an astounding move puzzling many in Moscow, Putin after reading thissecretFSB report ordered posted to the Kremlins official website a 
defense of Strauss-Khan becoming thefirst world leader to state that the former IMF chief was a victim of a US conspiracy. 
One of the United States top Congressman, and 2012 Presidential candidate, Ron Paul has long stated his belief that the US government has 
lied about itsgoldreserves held at Fort Knox. And in 2010 put forward a bill force an audit of them, .The bill was defeated,but which was 
subsequently defeated by Obama regime forces. 
When directly asked by reporters if he believed there was nogoldin Fort Knox or the Federal Reserve, Congressman Paul gave the incredible 
reply, I think it is a possibility. 
Also interesting to note is that barely 3 days after the arrest of Strauss-Kahn, Congressman Paul made a new call for the US to sell 
itsgoldreserves by stating, Given the high price it is now, and the tremendous debt problem we now have, by all means, sell at the peak. 
Reports emanating from the US for years, however, suggest there is nogoldto sell. 
New reports coming from the United States show his determination not to go down without a fight as he has hired what is described as a 
crack team of former CIA spies, private investigators and media advisers to defend him. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031335 
Ob Monday Russias Central Bank yesterdayordered the interest rateraised from 0.25 to 3.5 percent and Putin ordered the export ban on 
wheat and grain cropslifted by July lin a move designed to fill Russias coffers with money that normally would have flowed to the US. 
Incoming search terms: 
• dsk fort knox 
• dsk gold 
• strauss kahn fort knox 
• strauss-kahn fort knox 
• strauss kahn gold 
• strauss kahn jailed no gold 
• Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar fort knox 
• putin gold fort knox 
• dominique strauss kahn gold 
• putin re missing us gold/dsk 
• dominique strauss kahn fort knox 
• fort knox gold missing 
• straus kahn 
• stros kan fort nox cia 
• putin fort knox 
• dsk gold fort knox 
• straus khan and gold 
• dominique strauss-kahn maid us gold 
• kahn and gold 
• stros kan and fort nox conspirasy 
• Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar Putin Strauss-Kahn 
• strauss-kahn gold 
• Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar gold 
• strauss kahn gold knox 
• conspiracy behind Strauss kahn arrest 
Leave a Reply 
Top of Form 
Name (required) 
Mail (will not be published) (required) 
Website 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031336 
X 
Submit Comment 
Bottom of Form 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031337 
