Date: Sunday, April 3 2011 02:08 PM 
Subject: Fwd: raw text 
From: Lesley Groff < 
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com >, Darren lndyke 
Scott was able to send me the attachments below but there are no highlights. Darren, if you want to call me and 
read me the highlights, I can type them on a Word Doc as you dictate...(?) (Even when Scott opened them on 
his end he had no highlights) 
Forwarded message 
From: Scott Denett 
Date: Sun, Apr 3, 2011 at 10:04 AM 
Subject: raw text 
To: Lesley Groff < 
According to Friday's NY Post Jeffrey Epstein returned to New York City "making wisecracks about his just-
ended jail stint for having sex with an underage girl". "I'm not a sexual predator, I'm an 'offender, ' " the Wall 
Street hedge fund manager told The Post. "It's the difference between a murderer and a person who steals a 
bagel," said Epstein. 
Well that's not exactly the correct analogy... 
Not only are Epstein's comments brazen, they are arrogant and self-implicating. By telling a reporter "I'm an 
offender", he seems to be admitting guilt. 
Which brings me to the big question of the day. Why did Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan D.A., allow a Level 
3 sex offender (the most dangerous kind) to reside -- even for ten minutes -- in a house that is right next to 
Central Park and a school? Isn't that unlawful given the housing guidelines for sex offenders? 
According to the NYPost, Epstein's Level 3 designation means that he is at "high risk" to repeat his offense and 
poses "a threat to public safety." 
When I rang Vance (twice) to discuss Epstein's residential guidelines he did not take my calls. 
According to a few of the attorneys who represented Epstein's victims in the civil cases, the financier never 
agreed to a psychological evaluation prior to or during his sentence, a requirement of all sexual predators. 
While Epstein's self-incriminating statements are published (this week he told the Post "the crime that was 
supposedly committed in Florida is not a crime in New York" -- an interesting choice of words -- he continues 
to mock the law that applies to all other sex offenders who are found guilty of the same crime. 
Epstein served 13 months in the West Palm Beach Stockade and 18 months under community control (a rather 
permissive version of house arrest), for 2 Counts of Solicitation of Prostitution with a Minor. 
In August of 2010, immediately following his release from "community control", Epstein returned to his $50 
million East 71st Street town house given to him by his former client and long time friend Leslie Wexner. 
Just in the last few weeks he held a house warming dinner to celebrate his release from jail and reportedly 
invited television reporters Katie Couric, Charlie Rose, George Stephanopoulus and his close friend, HRH 
Prince Andrew, according to the NY Post. 
You would think these professional television reporters would have done their homework prior to accepting his 
invitation no matter how desperate they were to rub elbows with Prince Andrew. 
According to a 53-page sealed indictment Epstein was facing 10 years to life on multiple counts of statutory 
rape, and child sex trafficking. 
Court documents in that case claimed he routinely sought out girls as young as 14 and paid them $200 to $1,000 
for sexually explicit massages in his homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Manhattan. 
In the New York sex-offender database, Epstein isn't registered under a zip code rather a "name search" option 
that does not list his New York address. 
The reason for this is because Epstein's Upper East Side home is considered "temporary" and by NY state law, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029766 
he is required to provide only his permanent address to the database. 
Epstein is currently listed under his Florida home even though he is no longer a Florida resident either (after his 
arrest he immediately became a US VI resident), but then again who's keeping count? 
Once again these are mere technicalities when it comes to Epstein's sexual predator case. The two most 
disturbing parts of this story are that this could easily happen again and that once again there will be no justice. 
Had Epstein been a caring benefactor contributing to society and these young girl's education and well being 
then the world would have judged him differently. 
What he has done instead is the exact opposite -- causing enormous damage to hundreds of underage girls who 
could have been sponsored towards a better education. 
With respect to Manhattan DA Cyrus Vance, I'm confused by his decision to allow this sexual predator to live 
at his Fifth Avenue house all this time (since August 2010), given his rather tough stance on gun control as 
witnessed by his testimony in Friday's NYPost when asked about a Florida driver cleared in a Manhattan 
weapon's charge, "guns brought illegally into New York City" he said, " for any reason violate well established 
state laws and are a threat to our public safety". 
Then wouldn't a registered sex offender living 500 feet from a park (Central Park where young girls 
congregate), and with resources to spare be an even more dangerous threat to society? 
The Billionaire Pedophile's Sex Den 
by Conchita Sarnoff javascript:void(0) 
• javascript:;javascript:; 
• http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs- and-stories/2010-07-22/j effrey-epstein-pedophile-billionaire-and-his-sex-den/full/ 
• javascript:void(0) 
• javascript:void(0) 
• Email 
• javascript:void(0) 
• 
Newscom Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a 
depraved world of thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that's only now 
being revealed. Conchita Sarnoff reports on the sordid details in part two of her exclusive exposé. Also: 
• Nude images of young girls were scattered around the house and the bathroom soap was shaped like sex 
organs 
• Staff trolled for fresh recruits to make sure Epstein had two or three massage appointments each day 
• The house manager has been sentenced to a longer prison term than Epstein—for trying to sell notes 
regarding massage appointments 
• Epstein gave $1 million to his friend Jean Luc Brunel when he was starting the modeling agency MC2 
• According to a former bookkeeper, young girls were brought to the U.S. by MC2—often from Eastern 
Europe—then traveled on Epstein's private jets 
Jeffrey Epstein's loyal friends say that his prosecution was unduly harsh, rather than outrageously lenient. 
They insist that his sexual habits, although obsessive and unusual, were mostly legal and essentially harmless. 
As the police records attest, the girls brought to El Brillo Way were routinely told they could "say no" at any 
time during a massage as Epstein escalated contact in a step-by-step assault that was remarkably similar in 
every victim's statement: First she would be asked to remove her shirt, then her pants. He would attempt to 
fondle her buttocks and breasts as he masturbated, then bring out a large vibrator. There was sometimes digital 
penetration, and the more willing girls were lured into full-blown sexual relations with both Epstein and Nadia 
Marcinkova, who was referred to in press accounts and police reports as Epstein's live-in "sex slave." 
A former bookkeeper in the Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls traveling to the U.S., confirmed 
that MC2 girls became frequent guests on Epstein's private jets. 
It's true that some underage girls may have lied about their age, and some came to the house voluntarily several 
times—although, according to Florida statutes, none of that has any bearing on the criminality of the contact, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029767 
particularly if the girl was 16 or younger. But what is particularly disturbing about this case—judging by 
arrangements at the Palm Beach house—is that Epstein, a billionaire hedge-fund manager, organized his life 
around this sexual compulsion in an open and methodical way that suggests he felt he was beyond the law. 
• Conchita Sarnoff: Epstein Faces Sex Traffic Probe  
• Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free  
According to police who executed a search warrant, the house was decorated with large, framed photos of nude 
young girls, and similar images were found stashed in an armoire and on the computers seized at the house 
(although police found only bare cables where other computers had been). Some bathrooms were stocked with 
soap in the shape of sex organs, and various sex toys, such as a "twin torpedo" vibrator and creams and 
lubricants available at erotic specialty shops, were stowed near the massage tables set up in several rooms 
upstairs. 
Epstein also enlisted his staff in the predatory activity, and four—Sarah Kellen, Adriana Ross, Lesley Groff, 
and Marcinkova—figured in the FBI investigation. The Non Prosecution Agreement stipulated that they would 
not be charged. According to police reports and sworn statements in the civil suits, all four women, among their 
other duties, worked to ensure that an appointment book for twice- or thrice-daily "massages" was stocked with 
fresh recruits. Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter of the late Czechoslovakian-born press baron Robert Maxwell, 
who was for many years Epstein's live-in partner, also recruited young girls. 
Since his 13-month sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor, Epstein has settled more than a dozen 
lawsuits brought by underage girls. Seven victims reached a last-minute deal last week, days before a 
scheduled trial; each received well over $1 million—an amount that will hardly dent Epstein's $2 billion net 
worth. 
The victims told police they waited in the kitchen to be called upstairs for a massage, and the house chef often 
gave them a bite to eat. House manager Alfredo Rodriguez said in his sworn statement that a maid named 
Lupita, who was a devout Catholic, wept when she complained to him about cleaning up after the massage 
sessions, picking up soiled towels and putting away the sex toys. And she was upset that a photo of Epstein 
with the pope hung next to one of him with a young girl. 
Ironically, Rodriguez, who ran the house on El Brillo Way in 2004 and 2005, ended up being sentenced to more 
jail time than his boss as a result of the complex investigation into Epstein's activities. He was fired, he says, 
for inadvertently drawing police attention to one of the girls when she arrived at the house unannounced to 
collect money. He saw an unfamiliar "beater" in the driveway one evening and called 911. When he left 
Epstein's employ, Rodriguez took away some notes and emails about massage appointments as "protection" 
against his own prosecution, and failed to produce them during the Palm Beach Police Department's initial 
investigation. 
• javascript:;javascript:; 
• http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs- and-stories/2010-07-22/jeffrey-epstein-pedophi le-billionaire-and-hi s-sex-den/full/ 
• javascript:void(0) 
• javascript:void(0) 
• Email 
• javascript:void(0) 
• 
Unable to get work as a house manager elsewhere in South Florida, he says, Rodriguez later tried to sell this 
"golden nugget"—his term—for $50,000, to be used in the victims' civil suits. Unfortunately, he made the 
offer to an undercover cop, and was subsequently charged with "obstruction of official proceedings" for 
withholding information that could have advanced the criminal investigation of Epstein—which by that point 
had been settled in a plea deal. Rodriguez was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison (Epstein was allowed to 
serve 13 months in the Palm Beach county jail), and now awaits an additional sentence on Aug. 24 in federal 
court in Miami for transporting firearms, another deal he says he made to pay the bills after he lost his job. 
In a deposition given for the civil suits, Rodriguez testified that he was instructed to always have $2,000 in cash 
on hand, so that he could pay both the girls who gave massages and recruiters such as Haley Robson who 
brought them to the house. He also testified that Epstein made large contributions to the Palm Beach Police 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029768 
Department, and in return was given PBPD baseball hats to put on the dashboard of his various cars to avoid 
being stopped or ticketed by local police. Retired Police Chief Michael Reiter, in his own deposition, 
acknowledged that, in addition to earlier donations to the police department (which are fairly common in well-
heeled Palm Beach), Epstein had recently given the department $100,000 for some sophisticated equipment. 
The police were still researching the purchase when Epstein came under suspicion, and Reiter ordered the 
money returned. (Guy Frostin, one of Epstein's local attorneys, told police that Epstein also gave $100,000 to 
the Florida Ballet for massages, because he was "very passionate" about massages being "therapeutically and 
spiritually" beneficial. Yet victims told police they had no massage training.) 
Perhaps most disturbing, in terms of possible sex trafficking, was Epstein's relationship with Jean Luc Brunel, 
owner of the MC2 modeling agency. According to a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern 
District of Florida, an alleged victim said that Epstein, Maxwell, Brunel, Rodriguez, and Marcinkova 
"deliberately engaged in a pattern of racketeering that involved luring minor children through MC2, mostly 
girls under the age of 17, to engage in sexual play for money." (Which would amount to trafficking.) 
Brunel is a 50-plus French playboy who was formerly part owner of Karin, a Paris-based modeling agency. He 
lives in New York and South Beach, Florida, and owns 85 percent of MC2, which has offices in New York, 
Miami, and Tel Aviv. (The remaining 15 percent is owned by his partner, Jeff Fuller.) Brunel has been 
observed as a house guest at Epstein's Palm Beach home and may well have had contact with him also in New 
York, where Epstein owns a lavish home, and in Paris, where Epstein keeps an apartment on elegant Ave. Foch. 
CBS reporter Craig Pyes, who investigated Brunel for a 60 Minutes broadcast many years ago, is quoted in 
Michael Gross' book about the modeling industry, Model: The Ugly Business QfBeautiful Women. Pyes told 
the author that Brunel "ranks among the sleaziest people in the fashion industry. We're talking about a 
conveyor belt, not a casting couch. Hundreds of girls were not only harassed but molested." Now The Daily 
Beast has learned that Epstein had made a $1 million wire transfer to Brunel's offshore bank account in 
September 2004, just as he was setting up MC2. Whether this was a gift or a loan or a backdoor investment in 
the new venture is unknown. A French citizen who managed to avoid giving evidence in the Epstein 
investigation, Brunel declined to comment on any of this, as does Fuller. Asked in April of Brunel's activities, 
Epstein said "I'm 100 percent convinced that he doesn't traffic children." (Brunel has never been charged.) 
An American fashion designer who booked her girls through MC2 says they were very young and very 
beautiful; many were from Eastern Europe and spoke little English. A former bookkeeper in the agency's 
Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls traveling to the U.S., confirmed that MC2 girls became 
frequent guests on Epstein's private jets. 
Pilot logs obtained in the civil suits show that some of the named plaintiffs were on the flight manifests. Other 
times, the pilot would just list the other passengers plus "female." 
Posted 02 August 2010 - 12:47 AM 
Jeffrey Epstein, Jew Billionaire Pedophile, Child Trafficker Goes Free-WoW! 20 year old Hearsay is enough to destroy catholic priest. What happened here to the justice 
system? 
Conchita Sarnoff 
http://www.thedailyb...hile-  goes-free/ 
Conchita Sarnoff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500 companies and has 
produced three current events debate television programs, The Americas Forum, From Beirut to Kabul, and a 
segment for The Oppenheimer Report. She is writing a book about child trafficking in America. 
Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a depraved world of 
thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that's only now being revealed. Conchita 
Sarnoff follows up on her investigation of the legal wrangling that saved him from a long prison term and 
reports on the sordid details in part two of her exclusive exposé. Also: 
• Palm Beach's police chief objected to Epstein's "special treatment" and gave The Daily Beast an exclusive 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029769 
look at his nine-hour deposition about the investigation. 
• Earlier versions of the U.S attorney's charges, including a sealed 53-page indictment, could have landed 
Epstein in prison for 20 years. 
• Victims alleged that Epstein molested underage girls from South America, Europe, and the former Soviet 
republics, including three 12-year-old girls brought over from France as a birthday gift. 
• The victims also alleged trips out of state and abroad on Epstein's private jets, which would be evidence of 
sex trafficking—a much more serious federal crime than the state charges Epstein was convicted of 
• Epstein's attorneys investigated members of the Palm Beach Police Department, while others ordered private 
investigators to follow and intimidate the victims' families; one even posed as a police officer. 
• Then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales told The Daily Beast that he "would have instructed the Justice 
Department to pursue justice without making a political mess." 
Film director Roman Polanski is not the only convicted pedophile to walk free this month and return to a life of 
privilege. On Wednesday, hedge fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completes his one-year house arrest in Palm 
Beach, which has been even less arduous than Polanski's time at a Swiss ski chalet. 
Watch Jeffrey Epstein Storm Out of a Deposition When Asked About His Penis 
During Epstein's term of "house arrest," he made several trips each month to his New York home and his 
private Caribbean island. In the earlier stage of his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor-13 
months in the Palm Beach Stockade—he was allowed out to his office each day. Meanwhile, Epstein has settled 
more than a dozen lawsuits brought by the underage girls who were recruited to perform "massages" at his 
Palm Beach mansion. Seven victims reached a last-minute deal last week, days before a scheduled trial; each 
received well over $1 million—an amount that will hardly dent Epstein's $2 billion net worth. 
• Conchita Sarnoff: Epstein Faces Sex Traffic Probe 
• The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den 
With that, the known victims of Epstein's sexual compulsion have been officially silenced, and the case against 
him is closed unless new ones come forward. According to banking sources, he has been moving assets out of 
the U.S. and may well follow Polanski into a luxurious exile. 
But the question remains: Did Epstein's wealth and social connections—former President Bill Clinton; Prince 
Andrew; former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak; New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson; and former Treasury 
Secretary Larry Summers were just a few of the prominent passengers on his private jets—allow him to receive 
only a slap on the wrist for crimes that carry a mandatory 20-year sentence? Was he able, with his limitless 
assets and heavy-hitting lawyers—Alan Dershowitz, Gerald Lefcourt, Roy Black, Kenneth Starr, Guy Lewis, 
and Martin Weinberger among them—to escape equal justice? 
Epstein Faces Sex-Traffic Probe 
http://www.thedailyb...obref=obnetwork  
The Justice Department is investigating Jeffrey Epstein for child trafficking, The Daily Beast has learned—and 
has widened the scope of its probe to include a famous modeling agency. 
Hedge-fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completed his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor last week. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029770 
But it appears his problems may not be over. Now The Daily Beast has learned that: 
• Federal investigators continue to investigate Epstein's activities, to see whether there is evidence of child 
trafficking—a far more serious charge than the two in his non-prosecution agreement, the arrangement 
between Epstein and the Department of Justice allowing him to plead guilty to lower-level state crimes. 
Trafficking can carry a 20-year sentence. 
• The FBI is also investigating Epstein's friend Jean Luc Brunel, whose MC2 modeling agency appears to have 
been a source of girls from overseas who ended up on Epstein's private jets. 
Because Epstein's predatory habits stretch back many years and involved dozens of young-looking girls, there 
may well be more evidence to uncover. 
Under the concept of double jeopardy, Epstein can no longer be prosecuted for any of the charges covered by 
his non-prosecution agreement, in which he agreed to serve a short term of incarceration, fund the civil suits of 
named victims, and register as a sex offender. The victims who accepted cash settlements in these civil suits 
agreed not to testify against him or speak publicly about the case. However, new evidence developed by the 
Department of Justice on other offenses not covered by the agreement, including allegations by additional 
victims who come forward, could lead to new charges. There is no statute of limitations in the federal sex-
trafficking law, which was also enacted by the state of Florida in 2002. Because his predatory habits stretch 
back many years and involved dozens of young-looking girls, there may well be more evidence to uncover. 
(Several young women who claim to be Epstein victims have recently contacted a Ft. Lauderdale lawyer, but to 
date no new civil complaints have been filed.) 
• Conchita Sarnoff: The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den 
• Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free 
These new developments come one week after the publication of two articles in The Daily Beast about 
Epstein's pattern of sexual contact with underage girls, which Palm Beach police began investigating in 2005 
and the U.S. Attorney's office then settled in a 2007 plea deal. The first article quoted a deposition by then-
Palm Beach Chief of Police Michael Reiter, in which he stated that Epstein, a billionaire with many powerful 
friends, had received special treatment in both his plea deal and the terms of his incarceration. Although federal 
investigators at one point produced a draft 53-page indictment against Epstein, he was eventually allowed to 
plead guilty to only two relatively minor state charges and receive a short term of incarceration: 13 months in 
the county jail, during which he went to the office every day, and one year of community control, during which 
he traveled frequently to New York and his private island in the Virgin Islands. 
The Daily Beast has now discovered another instance in which Epstein apparently received special 
consideration: As a convicted sex offender, he is required by law to undergo an impartial psychological 
evaluation prior to sentencing and to receive psychiatric treatment during and after incarceration. This is 
because child molesters tend to be repeat offenders with high rates of recidivism. According to a source in law 
enforcement, however, Epstein was allowed to submit a report by his private psychologist, Dr. Stephen 
Alexander of Palm Beach, Florida, whose phone has since been disconnected with no forwarding information. 
The Daily Beast's second article provided details about Epstein's systematic abuse of underage girls at his 
Palm Beach mansion, where members of his staff allegedly recruited and paid a parade of teenagers, most of 
them 16 or younger, to perform daily massages that devolved into masturbation, groping, and sometimes full-
blown sexual contact. It also revealed a monetary relationship between Epstein and Jean Luc Brunel, a frequent 
visitor to whom he gave $1 million around the same time that Brunel was starting his MC2 modeling agency. 
Some of the young girls MC2 recruited from overseas—often from Eastern Europe and South America—are 
known to have been passengers on Epstein's private jets. 
The U.S. Attorney General's Office in Florida says that it is against policy to confirm or deny the existence of 
an investigation. Jeffrey Epstein's lawyer, Jack Goldberger, says he has no knowledge of an ongoing probe, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029771 
and he told The Daily Beast, "Jeffrey Epstein has fully complied with all state and federal requirements that 
arise from the prior proceedings in Palm Beach. There are no pending civil lawsuits. There are not and should 
not be any pending criminal investigations, given Mr. Epstein's complete fulfillment of all the terms of his non-
prosecution agreement with the federal government." 
Conchita Sarnoff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500 companies and has 
produced three current-events debate TV programs, The Americas Forum, From Beirut to Kabul, and a segment 
for The Oppenheimer Report. She is writing a book about child trafficking in America. 
0 
#2 bruce  
• Reg stered User 
• 
• Group: Members 
• Posts: 11113 
• Joined: 12-August 08 
Posted 02 August 2010 - 12:59 AM 
These slugs leave slime wherever they go.america is owned by these pigs.filthy pigs. 
0 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029772 
