El IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE ELEVENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT IN AND FOR MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA. III IN THE COUNTY COURT IN AND FOR MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA. 
DIVISION 2 CIVIL IN DISTRICTS • OTHER 	CIVIL ACTION SUMMONS (b) Form for Personal Service on a Natural Person 	CASE NUMBER 14021348CA01 
PLAINTIFF(S) JEAN-LUC BRUNEL 	VS. DEFENDANT(S) JEFFREY EPSTEIN, TYLER MCDONALD, TYLER MCDONALD D/B/A YI.ORG 	CLOCK IN 
THE STATE OF FLORIDA:TO EACH SHERIFF OF THE STATE, YOU ARE COMMANDED to serve this Summons and a copy of the Cotr4taint this lawsuit on defendant: 	in 
To Defendant(s): JEFFREY EPSTEIN 	Address: -1.,*,---,; •Ef-i:e • I-f-2- -(Jble,4- *(40,,,t4t-f-AIP' 358 El Brilio Way Palm Beach, FL 33480-4730 .1"cl$F1..31 
IMPORTANT 
A lawsuit has been tiled against you. You have 20 calendar days after this summons is served on you to file a written response to attached complaint with the derk of this courL A phone call will not protect you.Yrxr written response, including the cose number given above and the names of the parties must be filed if you want the CODA to hear your side of the C.8541. If you de not filer your resporM time, you may lose the case, and your wages, money and properly may thereafter be taken without further warning from the Court. There are other legal requirements. You may want to call an attorney right away. if you do not know an attorney, you may call an attorney reierral service or a legal aid office (listed in the phone book). If you choose to file a written response yourself, at the same time you file your written response with the Clerk of the Court you must mail or take a copy of your written response to the "P(aintiff/Plaintiffs Attorney' named below. The central location of the Clerk's office at the Dade County Courthouse. The address for the courthouse, and branch locations are listed below for your comenience: DADE COUNTY COURT LOCATIONS 	the on also is 
EiDade County Couitbouss (06) I Joseph Caleb Cantle- (20) 0 Notth Dade Justice Cordes (23) Room 133 Room 103 Room 100 73 Watt Hagler Street 5400 NW 22 Avenue 15555 Biscayne BM/. Miami, Florida 33130 Warm, Florida 33142 North allarri Beach. Flottda 33160 ElMimi Beach District Court (24) In Corti Gabtas District Court (25) II South Dade Justice Center (26) Room 200 Room 100 Room 1200 1130 Washington Amosie 3100 Pono: De Lem BIM 10710 SW 211 Stnied Miami Beach, Florida 33133 Coral Gables, Floricia 23134 WA* Honda 331/10 II Hialeah District (21) Room 100 11 East 61h areal Hialeah. Florida 33010 	SERVICE 
Plaintiff/Plaintiff Attorney JOE TITONE Florida Bar No. 203882 	Address: 621 S.E. 5TH STREET, POMPANO BEACH, FL 33060 
HARVEY RUVIN CLERK OF COURTS 	VIVRA Sikilumt: ir BY: 	, DATE ON: 1E6 0 0 2015 
DEPUTY CLERK 
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT OF 1990 ADA NOTICE "If you are a person with a disability who needs any accommodation in order participate in this proceeding, you are entitled, at no cost to you, to the provision certain assistance. Please contact the Eleventh Judicial Circuit Court's ADA Coordinator, Lawson E. Thomas Courthouse Center, 175 NW 1st Ave., Suite 2702, Miami, FL 33128, Telephone (305) 349-7175; TDD (305) 349-7174, Fax (305) 349-7355 at least 7 days before your scheduled court appearance, or immediately upon receiving this notification time before the scheduled appearance is less than 7 days; if you are hearing or impaired, call 711." 	to of if the voice _________ 
CLIC/CT. 070 Rev. 11111 
Cleric's limb address: meat. 
D EN LA CORTE DE CIRCUIT° DEL UNDECIMO CIRCUIT° JUDICIAL EN Y PARA EL CONDADO DE MIAMI-DADE, LA FLORIDA. 0 EN EL TRIBUNAL DEL CONDADO EN Y PARA EL CONDADO MIAMI-DADE, LA FLORIDA. 
DIVISION DI CIVIL L _ OTRA 	EMPLAZAMIENTO DE ACCION CIVIL (b) NOTIFICACION PERSONAL A PERSONA NATURAL 	NUMERO DE CASO 
DEMANDANTE(S) 	VS. DEMANDADO(S) 	HORA 
A Demandado(s): 	Direccion: 
listed ha sido demanded° legalmente. Tbene 20 dias, escrito, y presentarla ante este tribunal. Una LIamada presenter SU respuesta por esaito, induyendo el numero tiempo, pudiese peeler el caso pordria ser despojado Existen otros regtisitos legates. Si lo desea. poade una de (as oficinas de asistencia legal (Legal Aid Is guia telefonica. SI desea responder a la dementia por su cueeta, al o entregar en la mane una copia de SU respuesta a Demandante) y presenter su contestadon a la domande edificio de la Code del Candado de Dade. La direccion LOCAL1DAD CI Dade County Courthouse (05) 0 Joaeph Caleb Room 133 Roue 103 73 Weal Flagler Street 540 NW 22 hitiorni, Rcrioa 3313D Miami, Florida 1:1 kbarrd Eleach Cestrict Court (24) 0 c.aki oatkii Room 200 Room 100 1130 Washington Avenue 3100 Ponce MAarn1 Beath, Florida 33139 Cm( Galslea. 	IMPORTANTE 	contester la demanda adj crinsidere su defense, Sl usted no contests la denanda sin previo aviso del a un abogado, puede Referral Service) que aparIcen debera usted envier ofir (Demandante o Ahmed° la Mina del Secretario elta para su convenienci2: El Walsall Dtatrict (21) Room 100 11 Bost 6th Street Hialeah, Hondo 33010 	nia, por debe a tribunal. Ikamar a en correo del en el 
cordados a partir del recibo de este notification, para leiefonica no lo protegera. Si usted desea que el tribunal del caso y los noinbres de Las partes irderesadas. de sus ingresos y propiedades, o privado de sus denachos, usted consulter a un abogado inmediatamente. Si no conoce Office) o tin servicio de referenda de abogados (Attorney misrno liampo en que presents SU respuesta ante el tribunal, la persona denominada at)* como 'Plaintiff/Plaintiffs Attorney" al Secretario del Juzgado. La tibial:ion central de de ta Code, y de (as sucursales aparecen en la Lists siguiente DE LOS 71IBUNALES DEL CONDADO DE DADE Career (20) 0 kWh Dade Judio5 Clatter (23) Room 100 Avenue 15555 Biscayne Elhod. 33142 North Marra Beach, Floeda 33150 District Cowl as 0 South Dade Justine Center (25) Room 1200 De Lem PM. 10710 SW 211 Street Fi011112 33134 Mama, Florida 331E19 
Dernandante c Abogado del Demandante Numen3 del Colegio de Abogados: 	Direccion: 
EL ESTADO DE LA FLORIDA: A cada alguacil del Estado: Se le ordena que hagen entrega de esta nolificacion y u copia de la demanda en este pied° at tlemandatio(s) mencionada arriba. 	la 
HARVEY RUVIN Secreted° del Tribunal del Condado 	POR: 	FECHA 
GornoSecretario Adjunto 
Ley para Estadounidenses con Incapacidades "Si usted es una persona minusvalida gue necesita bacer arreglos para poder participar en este proceso, usted tiene derecho, sin gasto alguno, a que se le provea cierta apda. Por favor pong_ase en contacto con el Coordinador de ADA en el Onceavo Distrito Judicial uhicado en el Lawson E. Thomas Courthouse Center, 175 NW 1st Ave. 2702, Miami Fl 33128, Telefonos (305)349-7175; TDD (305) 349-7174, Fax (305) 349-7355 por lo menos 7 dias antes de la cita fijada para su comparecencia en los tribunales; inmediatamente despues de recibir esta notificacion si el tiempo antes comparecencia que se ha programado es menos de 7 dias; si usted tiene discapacitacion del oido o de la voz, llame al 711." 	Sala o de la 
CLK/CT. 070 Rev 11111 
Clerk'es web cellintss: Ninny. 
U AU TRIBUNAL DU ONZIEME ARRONDISSEMENT JUDICIARE DANS ET POUR MIAMI-DADE, FLORIDE. 0 AU TRIBUNAL DE JUGEMENT Er POUR LE DEPARTENT DE MIAMI-DADE, FLORI DE. 
DIVISION CI CIVILE D AUTRE 	CONVOCARION (b) LIVRAI ON PERSONNELLE 	Cr ACTION CIVILE A UNE PERSONNE 	NUMERO DE CAS 
PLAINTE(S) 	VS. CONTRE ACCUSE(S) 	HEURE IN 
A (AUX) ACCUSE(S): 	ADRESSE: 
Des poursuites judiciaires ont ete enterprises contra citation pour deposer use response mite a La plainte protegee. Vous etas obliges de deposer votre response nommees ici, si VDUS souhailez qua ,:a tribunal entende risquez de perdre is cause sins' que vote sataire, tribunal. II y a d'autres obligations juridiques at vous vous pourriez telephoner a tin service reference cfavocats Si votts choisissez de deposer VOUS-Mellie UM reponse expedier une copte de votre reponse ecrite au •PlairtifiPtairdirs reponse avec le Grafter du Tribunal. L'adresse l'adresse des succursales sort dans ci-dessous pour 0 Dade County Courthouse (05) 0 Joseph Czech Room 133 Room 103 73 Weal Flaglet Street 5400 NW 22 Miami, Florida 33130 Warr& Ficrida El ktierni Beech Dtstrict Ccurt (24) 0 Corot Gables Room 200 Room 100 1130 Washington AVellie 3100 Ponce SAWN Beach. Florida 33139 CCIAI Gebtee, 	IMPORTANT 	la data de rassignation de est insoffisant pour ci-dessus at du nom des ecrite dans le relai requiS. suite, aucun preavis ulterle vous no connaissez pas d'• rannuaire de telephones). cette formate, faire parvCnir ci-dessous at emegistrei L'adresse du trib 0 Htelesh District (21) Room 100 11 East 6th Street Hialeah, Flodde 33010 	cede vous 3arties VOUS ur du vocal, ou votre nat,el 
VOUS. Vous ci-jointe ecrite, vote votre argent, pouvez requerir ou a ecrite, centrale du wire convenance 	avez 20 jours consecutifs a partir a de aupres de 03 Irthurtal. Ull SkT1010 coup de telephone ac mention du nurnero de dossier muse. Si vous no deposez pas aotre reponse at vos biens peuvent etre saisIs par La les services immedlats d'un avocet. Si tin bureau dessistance juridique (frgurard a it VOUS faudea egaternent, en memo temps qua Attorney (PlaignaM ou a son avocet) nomrne bureau du Craftier est le Dade County Courthouse. DES IRIBLINAUX EN DADE 0 North Dade Justice Center (23) Room 100 15.53 Biscayne Btvd. North Wand Broth, Florida 33160 (25) 0 South Dade .histice Center (26) Room 1200 10710 SW 211 Steel Wane, Ronde 33189 
ADRESSES Cotter (20) Avenue 33142 District Court Be tem Stmt. Florida 33134 
Plainte/Avocat du Plainte Numero de barreau de la Floride: 	Adresse: 
LTAT DE LA FLORIDE A chaque sherff de retat vous etes oblige de presenter cette citation et une photocpie de la plainte ce document sur rarnuse (e) ci-desus. 	ie 
HARVEY RUVIN Greffier de Tribunal 	' PAR: 	 DATE ON: 
OOMVE GREFFER Af1101NE 
.. ACT DE 1990 POUR AMERICAINS HANDICAPES AVIS DE l' ADA "Si vous etes une personne handic,apee qui a besoin d'accommodement pour pouvoir participer a cette procedure, vous avez le droit, sans aucun coot, d'avoir de l'aide a disposition. S'il vous plait contacter le Coordinateur de l'ADA du Tribunal de l'OnYieme Circuit Judiciaire, Lawson E. Thomas Courthouse Center, 175 NW 1.3t Ave. Suite Miami, FL 33128, Telephone (305) 349-7175; TDD (305) 349-7174, Fax (305) 349-7355 moms 7 jours avant la date de comparution au tribunal, oubien immediatement avoir recu cet avis si la date avant la comparution est moms de 7 jours; si vous avez incapacite pour entendre ou parler, appelez le 711." 	votre 2702, au apres une 
CLKJCT. 070 Rev. 11/11 
Cient's eth address: anew 
erk.com 
0 NAN TRIBUNAL ONZYEM AWONDISMAN JIDISYE NAN E POU MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA. 0 NAN TRIBINAL E POU TRIBINAL NAN MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA. 
DIVIZYON El SIV1L 0 LOT 	KONVOKASYON POU KA SIVIL (b) DELIVRE PERSONELMAN BAY YON DAMN 	NIMEWO KA 
PLENTIF(S) 	VS. KONT AKIZE(S) 	LE 
AKIZE: 	ADRES: 
Yo entre yon aksyon kont oumeum. Ou genyen 20 jou grefie tribunal-sa, yon reponce pa ecri attache avec plent4a. ecrifo ou mete numero ka-a ki sou tet pagela avec nom position-0u cou ka-a. Si ou pa enregistre reponce-ou ou capab pedu l'agen ou ak byen ou. Genyen lot demande. avoka, ou ka rele sevis id rekomande evoke, ou biro ede Si ou shoisi voye yon reponce pa ecri oumenm, ou supose pa ecri pou avoka pleyan ou pleyan-yo ke non-li ama-a Tribinal. Adres santrat biwo Sekrete a se Dade County pou ou kaiwenn ye alez: MIRES TRIB1NAL 0 owe ccuity C,osethouse (05) CI Joseph Caleb Center (20) Room 133 Roam 103 73 West Ftagler Street 5400 NW 22 Avenue Warm, Ronda 33130 Ward, Florida 33142 Ell Miami Beech Distri:1 Cool (24) LI ower Saida* Dielnct Court Room 200 Room 100 1130 Washington Avenue 3100 Porto% De Loon 131,41 Mani Bomb, Floada 33135 Coral Gablex Florida 33134 	En 	pou enregistre cevan Se yen repenite si ou vie ke tribunal-la la pa enounce-ou en de suit. Si ou pa !oriel on pote on copi response ki localize nan avek lot tribinal yo nan lis ki CI lilal DtstOot (21) Roam 100 11 Eest 6th Sliest 1-11sioa1i. Rod& 33010 	pa kende yen, yen --krete .nba a 
kalandriye apres ou recevoi sornasyon-an Yon apei pa teleran ka kapab protege-ou. moune-yo ki sou papie-sa oblige ecri a l'heure ou capab pedu ke-a san tribunal Ou ka besoin telefone yon avoka tout legal (ki nun lis liv telefone). en mem Ian poste en mem tan poste et enregistre reponce-la nan tribunal-la Courthouse. Adres tribinal la, ak adres NAN DADE COUNTY El 1-4.111 Dade Justtos Genie/ (23) Room 100 15555 Btscayne Blvd. North tani Reach. Fltrittl 33160 (25) 0 South Dade Justice Center (76) Room 1200 10710 SW 21) Street Welt Ronda 33189 
Plainta/Avocat du Plainie Numero de barreau de la Floride: 	Nimewo manm avoka a. Address: 
ETA FLORIDA: Pou Chak nan eta a yo odone ou pou bay akize a (yo), non I ekri anwo a, manda sa a ak yon kopi yo pate an pwose sa a. 
HARVEY RUVIN Sekrete Jenemi Tribinal La 	BAY: 	DATE: 
SEKRETE 
LWA 1990 POU AMERIKEN KI ENFINI ANONS POU ANIERIKEN KI ENFINI "Si out se yon moun ki enfim e on bezwen akomodasyon pou on patisipe nan pwosei sa a, on gen dwa pou yo ba ou kek ed san on pa gen pou on peye. Silvouple ko 1 takte KowOdinate ADA pou Tribinal Onzyem Distrik Jidisye a nan: Lawson E. To omas Courthouse Center, 175 NW 1st Ave., Suite 2702, Miami, Fl 33128, Telefen (305 349-7175; TDD (305) 349-7174, Fax (305) 349-7355 omwen 7 jou anvan on gen randevo pou on paret nan tribunal la, oubyen imedyatman le on resevwa notifikasyon sa a si o gen mwens ke 7 jou pou ou paret nan tribunal la; si on gen difikilte pou on tande o byen pale, rele 711." 
CU(/CT. 070 Rev. 11/11 
CiefleS web adriress: www.vgp 
erk.oam 
Filing # 22956396 E-Filed 01/26/2015 12:26:55 PM 
IN THE ELEVENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT OF FLORIDA 
IN AND FOR DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA 
CIVIL DIVISION 
JEAN-LUC BRUNEL, individually, 
and MC2 MODEL & 
TALENT MIAMI, LLC 
Civil Action No.: 14-21348 CA 01 
Plaintiffs, 
VS. 
JEFFREY EPSTEIN, 
TYLER MCDONALD, TYLER 
MCDONALD D/B/A/ YI.ORG 
Defendants. 
/ 
AMENDED VERIFIED COMPLAINT FOR LEGAL & EQUITABLE RELIEF AND  
DAMAGES  
COME NOW the Plaintiffs, Jean-Luc Brunel and MC2 Model & Talent Miami, LLC, by 
and through undersigned counsel, and sues Defendants Jeffrey Epstein, Tyler McDonald, and 
Tyler McDonald d/b/a/ Yi.Org for legal relief, equitable relief and defamation, and states as 
follows: 
1. Venue is proper in Dade County, Florida as Defendants Tyler McDonald and Tyler 
McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org do business in Dade County, Plaintiff Jean-Luc Brunel resides in Dade 
County, Florida, and Plaintiff MC2 Model & Talent Miami, LLC, has an office in Dade County. 
The causes of action and damages against Defendant Jeffrey Epstein accrued in Dade County, 
Florida, due to specific acts by Epstein there, and accordingly, venue is appropriate there. 
Florida Statute 47.011. 
2. Florida Statute 48.193(1)(a)(1) ("long-arm") authorizes service on both out-of-state 
Defendants (Tyler McDonald, and Tyler McDonald d/b/a/ Yi.Org). 
1 
3. Jurisdiction is proper in the Circuit Court as this action seeks relief in excess of fifteen-
thousand dollars ($15,000). 
FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS AS TO DEFENDANT JEFFREY EPSTEIN  
4. Plaintiff Jean-Luc Brunel is the owner of Plaintiff modeling agency known as "MC2 
Model & Talent Miami" ("MC2"). MC2 began operations in October 2005 and has offices in 
New York, Miami, and Tel Aviv. 
5. Defendant Jeffrey Epstein ("Epstein") is a hedge-fund manager with a residence in Palm 
Beach County, Florida. Defendant has been the subject of significant media coverage due to 
charges brought against him involving sexual contact with minors. (Composite Exhibit A 
attached). 
6. Plaintiff Brunel and Epstein have known one another since the inception of Plaintiff 
MC2. 
7. Plaintiff Brunel operated his modeling agency, Plaintiff MC2, without incident until 
Epstein was first charged in Palm Beach County with unlawful sexual contact with a minor in 
2006. He was convicted of soliciting prostitution from a minor and sentenced to eighteen 
months in prison, of which he served thirteen months. He remains a registered sex offender in 
Florida as of this day. 
8. First, after the initial criminal charges against Epstein were filed in Palm Beach County, 
Plaintiffs were widely implicated in the media as being "linked" to Epstein. These false stories 
caused both Plaintiffs a tremendous loss of business. 
9. Plaintiffs lost multiple contacts and business in the modeling business as a direct result of 
Epstein's illegal actions. For example, several photographers will not work with MC2 due to the 
2 
adverse publicity surrounding Epstein and his illegal activities, and the publicity falsely linking 
Plaintiffs with those activities; namely, sex trafficking. (Composite Exhibit A). 
10. One example of such a photographer was Michael Avedon, who worked with MC2 on 
photo shoots. Avedon stopped answering Plaintiffs' emails and phone calls after having known 
Plaintiff for some time. Upon meeting Avedon out one night, Avedon stated to Plaintiff Brunel 
he had "found out some information" from some friends of his and that he could not associate his 
name with MC2. 
11. This statement by Avedon was no doubt a reference to the alleged and false links 
between Plaintiffs and Epstein's illegal activities with under-aged girls. This incident clearly 
illustrates an example of lost business on Plaintiffs' behalf. 
12. The second example of a business relationship that was terminated due to Epstein's 
intentional and illegal activities was a very recent one, involving an overseas agency, Modilinos 
Model Agency. The owner stated that the model to be placed with MC2 "found some article in 
Internet, which changed her position and she preferred to be placed with another agency." This 
was relayed to Plaintiff Brunel by e-mail dated October 15, 2014. This amply demonstrates that 
Epstein's intentional & illegal activities continue to cost Plaintiffs' business income. (Exhibit B 
attached). 
13. A third example of a lost business relationship can be found in an e-mail dated October 
17, 2014 (Exhibit C attached). The director of the 1 Mother Agency, Vladmir Yudashkin, states 
that a specific model will not sign with Plaintiff MC2 due to her fear that Plaintiffs' will force 
her into illegal activities. The model bases her fears upon the stories on the intemet falsely 
implicating Plaintiffs as being involved with illegal activities with young models. This is 
3 
another example of a false link between Epstein and Plaintiffs, costing Plaintiffs' business 
income. 
14. A fourth example of a lost business relationship can be found in a second e-mail dated 
October 17, 2014 (Exhibit D attached). Manuela Martinez of Mega Partners, a Brazilian 
modeling agency, states to Plaintiff Brunel that her agency has been unable to work with Plaintiff 
MC2 for the past five to six years because of the sex trafficking allegations against Plaintiffs. 
This reference is clearly to the false allegations online regarding sex trafficking that were based 
in the false link between Epstein and Plaintiffs. 
15. A fifth example of a lost business relationship can be found in an e-mail dated 
on Plaintiff's behalf was an e-mail dated August 27, 2010 from Michelle Stockman of Agence 
France Presse. (Exhibit E attached). Agence France Presse is a newswire service with a world-
wide reach. Stockman wanted to meet with Plaintiff Brunel to arrange a model shoot with MC2. 
However, due to the adverse publicity surrounding Plaintiffs as a result of Epstein's illegal 
activities, Plaintiff Brunel was forced to forego (and lose) this business opportunity because he 
needed to keep a low-profile at this time. 
16. A sixth example of lost business due to Epstein's intentional and illegal activities can be 
found in an e-mail dated December 12, 2014. (Exhibit F attached). Michael Sanka, a talent 
scout who had worked with Plaintiffs for a number of years, informed Plaintiff Brunel that he 
cannot sign any new models for Plaintiff Brunel's MC2 agency due to the false sex trafficking 
allegations online. Sanka goes on to state that Plaintiff Brunel's MC2 agency will not attract any 
new models if Plaintiff Brunel does not clear up the false allegations. 
17. A seventh example of lost business due to Epstein's intentional and illegal activities can 
be found in an e-mail from Fox Fashion Agency (Exhibit G attached). This e-mail clearly states 
4 
that Fox has placed models with Plaintiff MC2 in the past with absolutely no problems. 
However, because of the false internet trafficking links between Plaintiffs and Epstein, Fox states 
that it cannot place anymore models with Plaintiff MC2 until the allegations are cleared up. 
18. Before the false links between Plaintiff and Epstein surfaced, Plaintiff Brunel was 
earning a great deal of revenue from MC2 Miami. 
19. The false links between Plaintiffs and Epstein began to surface online in about 2005-
2006. Then, in 2006, Plaintiffs received a letter of credit from Epstein at 5% interest. Plaintiffs 
then made an investment totaling one-million dollars with Elite Paris, to start a company. 
20. Next, Plaintiff Brunel started the company, "E Management", to work with Elite Models 
in Paris, Plaintiff had to close it almost immediately, because Elite didn't send any models to 
Plaintiff MC2 for fear of being linked to Epstein. 
21. Because the false links between Plaintiffs and Epstein began to gain strength online, Elite 
Paris severed the agreement due entirely to these false links. Plaintiff Brunel lost his investment 
of one-million dollars because of this loss of business. 
22. Plaintiffs lost potentially ten-million dollars in profits due to this initial one-million dollar 
loss. 
23. Additionally, a former financial controller of MC2, Maritza Vasquez, stated in a 2012 
deposition that Plaintiff Brunel had never done anything inappropriate or illegal with any under-
age model. (Exhibits HI & H2 -Transcript of Deposition of Maritza Vasquez). 
24. Maritza Vasquez was fired from her job at Plaintiff MC2 for embezzling company funds, 
and had criminal charges filed against her (Composite Exhibit I attached). She was also the 
source of the false information linking Plaintiffs to sex trafficking in the articles written by 
Conchita Sarnoff of the website Jezebel (Composite Exhibit A. p.2-7). 
5 
25. The deposition testimony of Maritza Vasquez referred to above clearly demonstrates that 
Plaintiff Brunel has clean hands and was never involved in sex trafficking. All of Plaintiffs' 
damages came solely from Epstein's conduct. 
26. Additionally, Plaintiff Brunel has had significant delays in obtaining his visa to come to 
the U.S. These delays were also the result of the false link between Plaintiffs and Epstein. As a 
result of these delays, Plaintiffs lost a considerable amount of time & money. International 
travel is a significant component of Plaintiff Brunel's MC2 modeling business. Plaintiff Brunel 
has been forced to cancel his latest visa application as a result of the delays. (Exhibit J — 
Composite Visa Does). 
27. As a result of the notoriety and tremendous publicity surrounding Epstein's criminal 
charges, and the media linkage of Epstein to Plaintiffs regarding illegal activities, Plaintiffs lost a 
tremendous amount of business and revenue. 
28. Plaintiff Brunel's agency MC2 has lost millions of dollars in revenue since the media 
revealed that Plaintiffs and Epstein were associated. In fact, Plaintiff MC2 was worth millions of 
dollars; now, due to the illegal actions of Epstein, MC2 is almost worthless. 
29. At no time did Epstein ever publicly state that Plaintiffs had no role whatsoever in the 
Epstein's illegal activities. 
30. As a result of Epstein's illegal activities and his association with Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs 
continue to lose money and suffer damages to this day. (Exhibit K attached, Jeff Fuller email, 
11-12-14). 
31. Plaintiff Brunel will need to spend millions of dollars in order to restore his business to 
what it was once worth — money that the Plaintiff Brunel does not have. 
6 
32. Plaintiff Brunel continues to own and operate Plaintiff MC2 to this day, their names 
never having been cleared from the massive and totally negative media coverage involving 
Epstein and his illegal activities. Plaintiffs have been, and continue to be, irreparably harmed by 
these false internet-based links to Epstein. (Exhibits R & S attached). 
33. Second, Plaintiff Brunel was also told by Epstein to leave the Palm Beach area in 
anticipation of a deposition of Plaintiff Brunel in a criminal case against Epstein. On the direct 
advice of Epstein, Plaintiff Brunel went to Europe and Asia for a period of time. This was done 
for the sole purpose of delaying Plaintiff Brunel's deposition. 
34. As a direct result of Plaintiff Brunel's travels, his deposition was delayed twice. When it 
was finally scheduled for November 2009, Plaintiff Brunel was in fact available (Exhibit L 
attached). However, a medical emergency in the family of his attorney further delayed this 
deposition (Exhibit M attached). It was never rescheduled and he was never deposed. 
35. This was a blatant example of obstruction of justice in the criminal case. Epstein was 
solely responsible for telling Plaintiff Brunel to leave the area. Plaintiff Brunel lost a huge 
opportunity to clear his name, and that of his agency, Plaintiff MC2. 
36. Third, as a result of all of the facts stated above, Plaintiff Brunel was under tremendous 
psychological pressure throughout this period of time. 
37. This psychological pressure resulted in Plaintiff Brunel avoiding business contacts as set 
forth above. This pressure also directly caused Plaintiff Brunel to avoid certain social contacts 
during this period of time. 
38. Plaintiff Brunel became extremely withdrawn and anxious at this time. 
39. Epstein's conduct was the direct cause of Plaintiff Brunel's psychological state. The 
press was reporting extensively on the lurid details of Epstein's illegal activities with the under-
aged girls. 
7 
40. As stated above, the press reports were erroneously connecting both Plaintiffs to 
Epstein's illegal activities. (Composite Exhibit A attached). 
41. Epstein's illegal activities were outrageous and extreme; they involved receiving 
massages from the under-aged girls while the girls were nude or nearly-nude; penetration of the 
girls with a finger or object; or full-intercourse. 
42. These activities described above caused Plaintiff Brunel severe emotional distress. In 
fact, Plaintiff Brunel has recently undergone psychotherapy with a local psychologist, Dr. Royce 
N. Jalazo, as a result of Epstein's actions and the negative results on his business. (Exhibits N & 
0 attached). 
43. Plaintiff Brunel is emotionally destroyed as a result of Epstein's actions and the resultant 
effects on his business. He has been on medications to deal with the effects of this. (Composite 
Exhibit P — Medical History). 
44. Plaintiffs have been damaged by the conduct of Defendant Epstein, and have accordingly 
retained undersigned counsel to represent him in this matter, and are obligated to pay counsel a 
reasonable fee for his services. 
FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS AS TO DEFENDANTS TYLER MCDONALD & TYLER 
MCDONALD D/B/A YI.ORG  
45. Defendant Tyler McDonald ("McDonald") is the owner/operator of Yi.Org and also does 
business as Yi.Org — Defendant Tyler McDonald d/b/a Yi.org ("McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org"). 
Defendant McDonald resides in the state of Washington. Yi.Org is a website hosting service 
based in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. 
46. In about 2009, Yi.org, by and through the actions of its owner, McDonald, began hosting 
websites that contained hyperlinks that contained blatantly false and extremely disparaging 
information about Plaintiffs. (Exhibit Q attached - hyperlink screenshot). 
8 
47. These links clearly and falsely associated Plaintiffs with illicit escort services in the state 
of Florida; information which Defendants McDonald and McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org knew, or 
should have known, was false. 
48. These links have damaged Plaintiff Brunei's reputation as an owner of a well-established 
modeling agency with offices in New York and Miami, Plaintiff MC2. 
49. These links have also damaged the reputation of both Plaintiffs. 
50. The combined damage to the reputation to both Plaintiffs has resulted in a significant loss 
of revenue to Plaintiff MC2, and accordingly, to Plaintiff Brunel. 
51. Plaintiff MC2's revenues have fallen to a mere fraction of what they were before the 
appearance of the links on Yi.Org. 
52. Both Defendants McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org and McDonald assisted in the dissemination of 
the false and negative information that damaged Plaintiffs' reputation and directly caused 
damages to Plaintiffs. 
53. Plaintiff Brunel continues to own and operate Plaintiff MC2 to this day, both names still 
harmed by the false and negative association with escort services in Florida. 
54. Accordingly, Plaintiffs have been severely damaged by information on websites hosted 
by Yi.Org, which is maintained, owned and operated by Defendants McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org and 
McDonald. 
55. The information disseminated by the websites hosted by Defendants McDonald d/b/a 
Yi.Org and McDonald was false and defamatory to the extreme regarding Plaintiffs alleged 
involvement with escort services in the state of Florida. 
56. Defendants McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org and McDonald have made no attempt to clear the 
names of Plaintiffs with regard to the false and defamatory information disseminated by the 
9 
websites they hosted. 
57. Plaintiffs continue to do business to this day, their names never having been cleared from 
the negative information disseminated by Defendants McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org and McDonald. 
58. Plaintiffs have been damaged by the conduct of Defendants McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org and 
McDonald, and have accordingly retained undersigned counsel to represent him in this matter, 
and are obligated to pay counsel a reasonable fee for his services. 
COUNT I — EQUITABLE RELIEF FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS AND REVENUE - AS TO  
DEFENDANT JEFFREY EPSTEIN  
59. The allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 44 above are re-alleged and 
incorporated herein by reference. 
60. Plaintiffs have lost a significant amount of business revenue because of the actions of 
Defendant Epstein set forth above. 
61. Plaintiffs have no adequate legal remedy to make him whole as a result of the damages 
suffered in the form of lost business revenue due to the actions of Defendant Epstein. 
62. Accordingly, Plaintiffs seeks to become whole by the payment of damages by Defendant 
Epstein to compensate him for his losses. 
WHEREFORE. PLAINTIFFS request judgment against DEFENDANT as follows: 
A. Damages in excess of fifteen-thousand dollars; trial by jury and 
B. Grant other such relief as is appropriate. 
COUNT II — OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE — EQUITY - AS TO DEFENDANT 
JEFFREY EPSTEIN  
63. The allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 44 above are re-alleged and 
incorporated herein by reference. 
10 
64. Plaintiff was forced to commit illegal acts by traveling away from the sight of the 
deposition and during the time period of the deposition. 
65. Defendant Epstein attempted to subvert justice and this attempt contributed to the 
destruction of Plaintiff's business, Plaintiff MC2. Plaintiff Brunel lost substantial time away 
from his business and incurred expenses in following Epstein's commands. 
66. Plaintiffs were substantially damaged as a direct result of Epstein's actions. 
WHEREFORE, PLAINTIFFS request judgment against DEFENDANT as follows: 
A. Damages in excess of fifteen-thousand dollars; trial by jury and 
B. Grant other such relief as is appropriate. 
COUNT III — INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS UPON  
PLAINTIFF BRUNEL - AS TO DEFENDANT JEFFREY EPSTEIN  
67. The allegations contained in paragraphs I through 44 above are re-alleged and 
incorporated herein by reference. 
68. Defendant Epstein recklessly inflicted emotional distress upon Plaintiff Brunel by 
engaging in illegal conduct with under-aged girls, which was falsely linked to Plaintiffs. 
69. This illegal conduct was extreme and outrageous by any standard. 
70. This extreme and outrageous conduct was the direct cause of extreme emotional distress 
in Plaintiff Brunel. 
WHEREFORE, PLAINTIFF BRUNEL requests judgment against DEFENDANT as follows: 
A. Damages in excess of fifteen-thousand dollars; trial by jury and 
B. Grant other such relief as is appropriate 
II 
COUNT IV — EQUITABLE RELIEF FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS AND REVENUE - AS 
TO DEFENDANTS TYLER MCDONALD AND MCDONALD D/B/A YI.ORG  
71. The allegations contained in paragraphs I through 3 & 45 through 58 above are re-
alleged and incorporated herein by reference. 
72. Plaintiff, through his agency MC2, has lost a significant amount of business revenue 
because of the actions of Defendants McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org and McDonald set forth above. 
73. Plaintiffs have no adequate legal remedy to make him whole as a result of the damages 
suffered in the form of lost business revenue due to the actions of both Defendants. 
74. Accordingly, Plaintiffs seek to become whole by the payment of damages by both 
Defendants to compensate him for his losses. 
WHEREFORE, PLAINTIFFS request judgment against DEFENDANTS as follows: 
A. Damages in excess of fifteen-thousand dollars; trial by jury and 
B. Grant other such relief as is appropriate. 
COUNT V — DEFAMATION AGAINST PLAINTIFFS — AS TO DEFENDANTS TYLER 
MCDONALD AND MCDONALD D/B/A YLORG  
75. The allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 3 & 45 through 58 above are re-
alleged and incorporated herein by reference. 
76. Defendants McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org and McDonald published or caused to be published, 
false statements about Plaintiffs using their domain hosting service. 
77. Defendants McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org and McDonald knew, or should have known, that the 
statements about Plaintiffs were false. 
78. These published statements were read by the internet users who viewed the false 
statements. 
79. Plaintiffs' business reputations were severely damaged as a result. 
12 
WHEREFORE, PLAINTIFFS request judgment against DEFENDANTS as follows: 
A. Damages in excess of fifteen-thousand dollars; trial by jury and 
B. Grant other such relief as is appropriate. 
COUNT VI — EQUITABLE RELIEF FOR REPAIR OF BUSINESS REPUTATION - AS  
TO DEFENDANTS TYLER MCDONALD & TYLER MCDONALD D/B/A/ YLORG  
80. The allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 3 & 45 through 58 above are re-
alleged and incorporated herein by reference. 
81. Plaintiffs have also suffered a significant loss of their business reputations as a direct 
result of the actions of Defendants McDonald d/b/a Yi.Org and McDonald. 
82. Plaintiffs have no adequate legal remedy to make them whole as a result of the damages 
suffered in the form of lost business reputations due to the actions of both Defendants. 
83. Accordingly, Plaintiffs seeks to restore their business reputations by the payment of 
damages by both Defendants to compensate them for their loss of reputations. 
WHEREFORE, PLAINTIFFS request judgment against DEFENDANTS as follows: 
A. Damages in excess of fifteen-thousand dollars; trial by jury and 
B. Grant other such relief as is appropriate. 
Is/ Joe Titone 
Joe Titone 
Attorney 
FL BAR #: 203882 
621 S.E. 5th Street 
Pompano Beach, Florida 33060 
(954) 729-6490 
(954) 941-2232 (FAX) 
Joetitone708@comcast.net 
13 
VERIFICATION  
STATE OF FLORIDA 
COUNTY OF/f-i/--1-44/ /211.0 
JEAN-LUC BRLTNEL, being duly sworn according to law, upon his oath, deposes and says: 
I have read the foregoing complaint and all the allegations contained therlin. All such 
allegations are true based upon my personal knowledge, informatio and belief. 
I 
(id! 
JE BRL 
Sworn and subscribed to before me this  /  day of4e2z,...,/-r , 2014. 
PALO VALLAMES 
Nanny Pal4c - Florkta 
1 lir Caren. barn Oc.1 31, an B 
Coarniala •Eg 211500 
4 Scrawl Throw* NSW Navy Mot 
ps...i.......upeirimpnwepeopmempft 
NOTARY PUBLIC 
6 
14 
COMPOSITE 
EXHIBIT A 
http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2010/07/29/jeffrey-epstein-feds-probe-possible-child-
trafficking-charge.html 
Epstein Faces Sex-Traffic Probe 
The Justice Department is investigating Jeffrey Epstein for child trafficking, The Daily Beast has 
learned—and has widened the scope of its probe to include a famous modeling agency. 
Hedge-fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completed his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a 
minor last week. But it appears his problems may not be over. Now The Daily Beast has learned 
that: 
• Federal investigators continue to investigate Epstein's activities, to see whether there is 
evidence of child trafficking—a far more serious charge than the two in his non-
prosecution agreement, the arrangement between Epstein and the Department of Justice 
allowing him to plead guilty to lower-level state crimes. Trafficking can carry a 20-year 
sentence. 
• The FBI is also investigating Epstein's friend Jean Luc Brunel, whose MC2 modeling 
agency appears to have been a source of girls from overseas who ended up on Epstein's 
private jets. 
Because Epstein's predatory habits stretch back many years and involved dozens of young-
looking girls, there may well be more evidence to uncover. 
Under the concept of double jeopardy, Epstein can no longer be prosecuted for any of the 
charges covered by his non-prosecution agreement, in which he agreed to serve a short term of 
incarceration, fund the civil suits of named victims, and register as a sex offender. The victims 
who accepted cash settlements in these civil suits agreed not to testify against him or speak 
publicly about the case. However, new evidence developed by the Department of Justice on other 
offenses not covered by the agreement, including allegations by additional victims who come 
forward, could lead to new charges. There is no statute of limitations in the federal sex-
trafficking law, which was also enacted by the state of Florida in 2002. Because his predatory 
habits stretch back many years and involved dozens of young-looking girls, there may well be 
more evidence to uncover. (Several young women who claim to be Epstein victims have recently 
contacted a Ft. Lauderdale lawyer, but to date no new civil complaints have been filed.) 
• Conchita Sarnoff: The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den  
• Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free 
These new developments come one week after the publication of two articles in The Daily Beast 
about Epstein's pattern of sexual contact with underage girls, which Palm Beach police began 
investigating in 2005 and the U.S. Attorney's office then settled in a 2007 plea deal. The first 
16 
article quoted a deposition by then-Palm Beach Chief of Police Michael Reiter, in which he 
stated that Epstein, a billionaire with many powerful friends, had received special treatment in 
both his plea deal and the terms of his incarceration. Although federal investigators at one point 
produced a draft 53-page indictment against Epstein, he was eventually allowed to plead guilty 
to only two relatively minor state charges and receive a short term of incarceration: 13 months in 
the county jail, during which he went to the office every day, and one year of community control, 
during which he traveled frequently to New York and his private island in the Virgin Islands. 
The Daily Beast has now discovered another instance in which Epstein apparently received 
special consideration: As a convicted sex offender, he is required by law to undergo an impartial 
psychological evaluation prior to sentencing and to receive psychiatric treatment during and after 
incarceration. This is because child molesters tend to be repeat offenders with high rates of 
recidivism. According to a source in law enforcement, however, Epstein was allowed to submit a 
report by his private psychologist, Dr. Stephen Alexander of Palm Beach, Florida, whose phone 
has since been disconnected with no forwarding information. 
The Daily Beast's second article provided details about Epstein's systematic abuse of underage 
girls at his Palm Beach mansion, where members of his staff allegedly recruited and paid a 
parade of teenagers, most of them 16 or younger, to perform daily massages that devolved into 
masturbation, groping, and sometimes full-blown sexual contact. It also revealed a monetary 
relationship between Epstein and Jean Luc Brunel, a frequent visitor to whom he gave $1 million 
around the same time that Brunel was starting his MC2 modeling agency. Some of the young 
girls MC2 recruited from overseas—often from Eastern Europe and South America—are known 
to have been passengers on Epstein's private jets. 
The U.S. Attorney General's Office in Florida says that it is against policy to confirm or deny the 
existence of an investigation. Jeffrey Epstein's lawyer, Jack Goldberger, says he has no 
knowledge of an ongoing probe, and he told The Daily Beast, "Jeffrey Epstein has fully 
complied with all state and federal requirements that arise from the prior proceedings in Palm 
Beach. There are no pending civil lawsuits. There are not and should not be any pending criminal 
investigations, given Mr. Epstein's complete fulfillment of all the terms of his non-prosecution 
agreement with the federal government." 
Conchita Sarnqff has developed multimedia communication programs.for Fortune 500 
companies and has produced three current-events debate TV programs, The Americas Forum, 
From Beirut to Kabul, and a segment for The Oppenheimer Report. She is writing a book about 
child trafficking in America 
17 
,http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2010/07/22/ieffrey-epstein-pedophile-billionaire-and-
his-sex-den.html  
The Billionaire Pedophile's Sex Den 
Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a 
depraved world of thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that's only 
now being revealed. Conchita Sarnoff reports on the sordid details in part two of her exclusive 
exposé. 
Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a 
depraved world of thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that's 
only now being revealed. Conchita Sarnoff reports on the sordid details in part two of her 
exclusive expose. Also: 
• Nude images of young girls were scattered around the house and the bathroom soap was 
shaped like sex organs 
• Staff trolled for fresh recruits to make sure Epstein had two or three massage 
appointments each day 
• The house manager has been sentenced to a longer prison term than Epstein—for trying 
to sell notes regarding massage appointments 
• Epstein gave $1 million to his friend Jean Luc Brunel when he was starting the modeling 
agency MC2 
• According to a former bookkeeper, young girls were brought to the U.S. by MC2—often 
from Eastern Europe—then traveled on Epstein's private jets 
Jeffrey Epstein's loyal friends say that his prosecution was unduly harsh, rather than 
outrageously lenient. They insist that his sexual habits, although obsessive and unusual, were 
mostly legal and essentially harmless. As the police records attest, the girls brought to El Brill° 
Way were routinely told they could "say no" at any time during a massage as Epstein escalated 
contact in a step-by-step assault that was remarkably similar in every victim's statement: First 
she would be asked to remove her shirt, then her pants. He would attempt to fondle her buttocks 
and breasts as he masturbated, then bring out a large vibrator. There was sometimes digital 
penetration, and the more willing girls were lured into full-blown sexual relations with both 
Epstein and Nadia Marcinkova, who was referred to in press accounts and police reports as 
Epstein's live-in "sex slave." 
A former bookkeeper in the Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls traveling to the U.S., 
confirmed that MC2 girls became frequent guests on Epstein's private jets. 
18 
It's true that some underage girls may have lied about their age, and some came to the house 
voluntarily several times—although, according to Florida statutes, none of that has any bearing 
on the criminality of the contact, particularly if the girl was 16 or younger. But what is 
particularly disturbing about this case—judging by arrangements at the Palm Beach house—is 
that Epstein, a billionaire hedge-fund manager, organized his life around this sexual compulsion 
in an open and methodical way that suggests he felt he was beyond the law. 
- Conchita Sarnoff: Epstein Faces Sex Traffic Probe  
• Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free  
According to police who executed a search warrant, the house was decorated with large, framed 
photos of nude young girls, and similar images were found stashed in an armoire and on the 
computers seized at the house (although police found only bare cables where other computers 
had been). Some bathrooms were stocked with soap in the shape of sex organs, and various sex 
toys, such as a "twin torpedo" vibrator and creams and lubricants available at erotic specialty 
shops, were stowed near the massage tables set up in several rooms upstairs. 
Epstein also enlisted his staff in the predatory activity, and four—Sarah Kellen, Adriana Ross, 
Lesley Groff, and Marcinkova—figured in the FBI investigation. The Non Prosecution 
Agreement stipulated that they would not be charged. According to police reports and sworn 
statements in the civil suits, all four women, among their other duties, worked to ensure that an 
appointment book for twice- or thrice-daily "massages" was stocked with fresh recruits. 
Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter of the late Czechoslovakian-born press baron Robert Maxwell, who 
was for many years Epstein's live-in partner, also recruited young girls. 
Since his 13-month sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor, Epstein has settled more 
than a dozen lawsuits brought by underage girls. Seven victims reached a last-minute deal last 
week, days before a scheduled trial; each received well over $1 million—an amount that will 
hardly dent Epstein's $2 billion net worth. 
The victims told police they waited in the kitchen to be called upstairs for a massage, and the 
house chef often gave them a bite to eat. House manager Alfredo Rodriguez said in his sworn 
statement that a maid named Lupita, who was a devout Catholic, wept when she complained to 
him about cleaning up after the massage sessions, picking up soiled towels and putting away the 
sex toys. And she was upset that a photo of Epstein with the pope hung next to one of him with a 
young girl. 
Ironically, Rodriguez, who ran the house on El Brillo Way in 2004 and 2005, ended up being 
sentenced to more jail time than his boss as a result of the complex investigation into Epstein's 
activities. He was fired, he says, for inadvertently drawing police attention to one of the girls 
when she arrived at the house unannounced to collect money. He saw an unfamiliar "beater" in 
the driveway one evening and called 91!. When he left Epstein's employ, Rodriguez took away 
some notes and emails about massage appointments as "protection" against his own prosecution, 
and failed to produce them during the Palm Beach Police Department's initial investigation. 
Unable to get work as a house manager elsewhere in South Florida, he says, Rodriguez later tried 
to sell this "golden nugget"—his term—for $50,000, to be used in the victims' civil suits. 
19 
Unfortunately, he made the offer to an undercover cop, and was subsequently charged with 
"obstruction of official proceedings" for withholding information that could have advanced the 
criminal investigation of Epstein—which by that point had been settled in a plea deal. Rodriguez 
was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison (Epstein was allowed to serve 13 months in the 
Palm Beach county jail), and now awaits an additional sentence on Aug. 24 in federal court in 
Miami for transporting firearms, another deal he says he made to pay the bills after he lost his 
job. 
In a deposition given for the civil suits, Rodriguez testified that he was instructed to always have 
$2,000 in cash on hand, so that he could pay both the girls who gave massages and recruiters 
such as Haley Robson who brought them to the house. He also testified that Epstein made large 
contributions to the Palm Beach Police Department, and in return was given PBPD baseball hats 
to put on the dashboard of his various cars to avoid being stopped or ticketed by local police. 
Retired Police Chief Michael Reiter, in his own deposition, acknowledged that, in addition to 
earlier donations to the police department (which are fairly common in well-heeled Palm Beach), 
Epstein had recently given the department $100,000 for some sophisticated equipment. The 
police were still researching the purchase when Epstein came under suspicion, and Reiter 
ordered the money returned. (Guy Frostin, one of Epstein's local attorneys, told police that 
Epstein also gave $100,000 to the Florida Ballet for massages, because he was "very passionate" 
about massages being "therapeutically and spiritually" beneficial. Yet victims told police they 
had no massage training.) 
Perhaps most disturbing, in terms of possible sex trafficking, was Epstein's relationship with 
Jean Luc Brunel, owner of the MC2 modeling agency. According to a complaint filed in the U.S. 
District Court for the Southern District of Florida, an alleged victim said that Epstein, Maxwell, 
Brunel, Rodriguez, and Marcinkova "deliberately engaged in a pattern of racketeering that 
involved luring minor children through MC2, mostly girls under the age of 17, to engage in 
sexual play for money." (Which would amount to trafficking.) 
Brunel is a 50-plus French playboy who was formerly part owner of Karin, a Paris-based 
modeling agency. He lives in New York and South Beach, Florida, and owns 85 percent of MC2, 
which has offices in New York, Miami, and Tel Aviv. (The remaining 15 percent is owned by 
his partner, Jeff Fuller.) Brunel has been observed as a house guest at Epstein's Palm Beach 
home and may well have had contact with him also in New York, where Epstein owns a lavish 
home, and in Paris, where Epstein keeps an apartment on elegant Ave. Foch. 
CBS reporter Craig Pyes, who investigated Brunel for a 60 Minutes broadcast many years ago, is 
quoted in Michael Gross' book about the modeling industry, Model: The Li:5.g). Business of 
Beatitifid fPnnen. Pyes told the author that Brunel "ranks among the sleaziest people in the 
fashion industry. We're talking about a conveyor belt, not a casting couch. Hundreds of girls 
were not only harassed but molested." Now The Daily Beast has learned that Epstein had made a 
$1 million wire transfer to Brunel's offshore bank account in September 2004, just as he was 
setting up MC2. Whether this was a gift or a loan or a backdoor investment in the new venture is 
unknown. A French citizen who managed to avoid giving evidence in the Epstein investigation, 
Brunel declined to comment on any of this, as does Fuller. Asked in April of Bruners activities, 
20 
Epstein said "I'm 100 percent convinced that he doesn't traffic children." (Brunel has never been 
charged.) 
An American fashion designer who booked her girls through MC2 says they were very young 
and very beautiful; many were from Eastern Europe and spoke little English. A former 
bookkeeper in the agency's Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls traveling to the U.S., 
confirmed that MC2 girls became frequent guests on Epstein's private jets. 
Pilot logs obtained in the civil suits show that some of the named plaintiffs were on the flight 
manifests. Other times, the pilot would just list the other passengers plus "female." 
Editor's Note: An earlier version of this article misidentified the subject of Craig .Pyes ' 
investigation and the title of Michael Gross' book. The Daily Beast has corrected the subject and 
title and regrets the error. 
Read Conchita Sarnoff's oriuinal report on Epstein. 
Conchita Sarnqff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500 
companies and has produced three current events debate television programs, The Americas 
Forum, From Beirut to Kabul, and a segment for The Oppenheimer Report. She is a contributor 
to The Heington Post. She is writing a book about child trafficking in America. 
21 
http://fashioncopious.typepad.com/fashioncopious/2010/08/mc2-modeling-agency-involved-in-sex-
trafficking.html 
MC2 Modeling Agency Involved In Sex Trafficking 
August 11,2010 
On August 4th Jezebel ran the following story: The Sex-Trafficking Model Scout. 
Perhaps most disturbing, in terms of possible sex trafficking, was Epstein's relationship with Jean 
Luc Brunel, owner of the MC2 modeling agency. According to a complaint filed in the U.S. 
District Court for the Southern District of Florida, an alleged victim said that Epstein, [assistant 
and girlfriend Ghislaine] Maxwell, Brunel, [house manager Alfredo] Rodriguez, and Marcinkova 
'deliberately engaged in a pattern of racketeering that involved luring minor children through 
MC2, mostly girls under the age of 17, to engage in sexual play for money. 
The previous paragraph in the story read: 
and making [speaking of Jeffrey Epstein] frequent $100,000 donations to the Palm Beach Police 
Department would insulate him from prosecution for his various depravities. 
Which included, for the record: buying a 14-year-old Yugloslavian named Natalia Marcinkova 
from her parents in order to keep Marcinkova as his "sex slave"; paying a retinue of women to 
trawl Palm Beach for teenagers economically desperate enough to agree to give Epstein 
"massages" that often led to sexual contact; receiving two 12-year-old French girls as a "birthday 
present"; and befriending Michael Wolff. 
22 
http://bettyfokker.wordpress.com/2010/08/20/hes-helping-others-get-away-with-child-sex-
trafficking/ 
He's helping others get away with child-sex trafficking 
Posted on August 20, 2010 by Betty Fokker 
Let's discuss that billionaire douche-face child-rapist, Jeffrey Epstein for a moment shall 
we? He's someone who likes to have sex with venerable underage girls, including 12 year old 
girls who are trafficked into the US under the guise that they will become models. His partner in 
crime was Jean Luc Brunel, owner and 'talent scout' of the MC2 "modeling agency". Epstein 
coincidently invested a million bucks in the MC2 ki.€14ie-pefn-Fifig modeling agency and let 
Brunel use his privet jet. 
The FBI thinks Epstein has assaulted/molested about 40 or so young girls. So he's going to 
prison for the rest of his life right? Wrong. 
When faced with the best defense lawyers money could buy, the prosecutors wimped out and 
made a plea bargain so light it boggles the mind. This kid-raping bastard only had to please 
guilty to two MINOR charges and gets a private cell, a cell he gets to leave on a "work release 
program" by the way. 
Now, I am not blaming his defense attorneys. They were doing their job and, under our 
constitution, a festering anus like Epstein has the right to the best attorneys he can afford. 
I am livid with the prosecuting attorneys. It was their job to do everything in their power to bring 
this vomit-inducing shit-sack to justice. Instead, they decided to gutlessly pander to his wealth, 
privilege, and powerful defense team. They rolled over and did everything but send in another 
kid to give this fucker a hand-job. So this vermin got away with raping 12 year old girls because 
the prosecuting attorneys couldn't find a single testicle/ovary to share among them. 
And do you know what their chicken-shit kowtowing to Epstein has wrought? It's opened the 
door for other child-sex traffickers to get lighter sentences for their crimes too. Why should they 
have to pay when he didn't? After all, it was just girls they were trafficking for sex with 
disgusting older males (I refuse to call something like Epstein a "man"; it insults men) ... they 
weren't harming anything of any value in our culture! 
I'm a feminist because I think girls & women have value. What a crying, fucking shame there 
wasn't one feminist in the prosecutors office to go after this monster and punish him. What a pity 
other hell-spawn might get away with trafficking girls for sex more easily because of the shit-
for-brains attorneys who let Epstein get away with his crimes. 
My eyeballs are melting with rage. 
Never mind. They aren't melting. It's just tears of helpless and despairing rage against an unjust 
legal system and the cultural devaluation of women and girls. 
23 
http://zawkencom/5600294/reeently-freed-sex-offender-jeffrev-enstein-may-face-child-
trafficking-charges  
Recently-Freed Sex Offender Jeffrey Epstein May Face Child Trafficking 
Charges  
t•r • 11 t* POtwa-
,kaasemie 
XFIttr 0:71/1 
rg 
mi..tipiT 
WV1,1.1 
-I -4! 
Ads by Google  
Expand 
Jeffrey Epstein, the billionaire Bill Clinton pal who just left jail after completing a sentence for 
soliciting sex with a minor, may be headed back soon: The Daily Beast reports that the Justice 
Department is investigating him for child trafficking. 
Epstein, famous for being rich, being friends with Bill Clinton, having an egg-shaped penis, and 
being a vindictive pervert, can't be prosecuted again for the charges he copped to in his plea deal. 
But according to The Daily Beast's Conchita Sarnoff, new charges might be coming: 
As we learned in Vanity Fair yesterday, Bill Clinton has spent his post-presidential life...Read 
more  
Federal investigators continue to investigate Epstein's activities, to see whether there is evidence 
of child trafficking-a far more serious charge than the two in his non-prosecution agreement, the 
arrangement between Epstein and the Department of Justice allowing him to plead guilty to 
lower-level state crimes. Trafficking can carry a 20-year sentence. 
Since there's no statute of limitations for sex-trafficking, and Epstein's predatory adventures 
apparently date back more than a few years, it's likely there's more women who could come 
forward. (Apparently some have contacted a lawyer, but nothing's been filed yet.) 
It's not just Epstein, either—his buddy Jean Luc Brunel, head of the MC2 modeling agency, is 
also being investigated, and some of the models he represented (many from overseas) may have 
been enlisted as companions on Epstein's private jet. 
24 
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/20 I 4/06/03/j e ffrey-e pste in_n_5439407.html 
MIAMI (AP) — Nearly a decade ago, a wealthy financial guru came under FBI investigation, 
suspected of sexually abusing dozens of underage girls at his Palm Beach mansion. Then, 
abruptly, the investigation was dropped and Jeffrey Epstein pleaded guilty to a single state 
charge of soliciting prostitution. He served just over a year in jail. 
Now, two women who say they were among his victims have won a precedent-setting appeals 
court ruling entitling them to see all the documents from the plea bargain discussions between 
Epstein's high-powered lawyers and federal prosecutors. 
Their goal: use those tiles to undo the agreement. reopen the investigation and subject Epstein to 
more charges. 
The women's lawyers contend Epstein got special treatment because of his wealth and 
connections. His attorneys deny that. 
Epstein. 61, made hundreds of millions of dollars managing funds for rich clients. Shortly after 
his 2008 guilty plea. it came to light that his lawyers had secretly reached a non-prosecution 
agreement months earlier with the U.S. Justice Department that spared him a potentially heavier 
punishment. 
"Our complaint alleges that. prodded by Epstein. the federal prosecutors deliberately concealed 
the sweetheart plea deal they made with him to avoid public criticism," said Paul Cassell. a 
University of Utah law professor who is representing the two women. 
The U.S. attorney's office in Miami would not comment. But the U.S. attorney at the time, R. 
Alexander Acosta, said in a 2011 letter defending his office that more evidence came to light 
after Epstein made his deal. 
"Many victims have spoken out, tiling detailed statements in civil cases seeking damages. 
Physical evidence has been discovered," Acosta wrote. "Had these additional statements and 
evidence been known, the outcome may have been different." 
Epstein has settled lawsuits for undisclosed amounts with many of the women who say they were 
underage when they were paid for sex. 
The case represents the first time a federal appeals court has ruled that the Crime Victims' Rights 
Act of 2004 guarantees victims the right to be informed about the details of how a plea bargain 
was reached. according to legal experts and lawyers involved in the case. The law marked the 
culmination of efforts begun in the 1960s to give crime victims more of a say. 
25 
"I hope that the case will ultimately set an important precedent that federal prosecutors can't keep 
victims in the dark about the plea deals that they reach." Cassell said. 
Epstein served 13 months of an 18-month sentence on the prostitution charge, sold his Palm 
Beach home in 2011 and now divides his time between a New York City home, a Caribbean 
island and an apartment in Paris. according to court documents. He also has a large New Mexico 
ranch. 
He donates huge sums each year, particularly toward projects involving new medical treatments 
and artificial intelligence. His foundation established a Harvard University program that uses 
mathematics to study evolutionary biology, viruses and disease. 
According to lawsuits filed by some of his accusers. Epstein relied on assistants to recruit 
underage girls to give him massages and perform sex acts. They were usually paid about $200. 
Some girls were notified about the investigation beginning in 2006. But they weren't told about 
the negotiations with federal prosecutors for at least nine months, despite a requirement in the 
Crime Victims' Rights Act that they be kept informed. The two women — who were 13 and 14 
when the alleged assaults occurred — sued for the files and won. 
"Although plea negotiations are vital to the functioning of the criminal justice system, a 
prosecutor and target of a criminal prosecution do not enjoy a relationship of confidence and 
trust when they negotiate." the appeals court said. 
Federal prosecutors have begun turning over the documents. 
Epstein's attorney. Roy Black, the celebrity lawyer who is also representing Justin Bieber in his 
DUI and resisting-arrest case in Miami Beach, declined to comment but has asked that the 
documents be kept from public view, and so far they have been. 
In a May 23 court filing. Black said that there was no conspiracy between prosecutors and 
Epstein's team to violate the victims' rights law and that the non-prosecution agreement 
contained many provisions Epstein strongly opposed. such as registering as a sex offender and 
agreeing not to contest certain lawsuits. 
"This was no sweetheart deal by any stretch of the imagination," Black said in court papers. 
Even if a judge invalidates the plea deal, it will still be up to federal prosecutors to decide what 
to do. 
"The court can't force the prosecutors to bring charges," said Matt Alexrod, a former federal 
prosecutor now in private practice in Washington. 
26 
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conehita-s-sarnoff/ehild-trafficking_b_1269748.html 
Conchita Sarnoff 
Communications expert 
Regulating Modeling Agencies to Help 
Prevent Child Sex Trafficking 
Posted: 02/10/2012 8:49 pm 
In 2010, Jezebel, an online site, nublished "The Sex Trafficking Model Scout" warning about the 
dangers of deregulated modeling agencies in the U.S. 
Given the growing number of modeling agencies that transport underage teenagers from foreign 
countries into the United States and the growing sex trade of underage girls in the U.S. why does 
this industry remain deregulated? 
Since the advent of this business, modeling agencies have had free reign to scout teenagers from 
every state in the country as well as every nation in the world. Many of these teenage girls come 
from economically disadvantaged families and are offered none to very limited protection while 
traveling and working as "models." 
Jezebel reported that Jean Luc Brunel, one of the cast of characters involved in the ongoing 
Jeffrey Epstein (a level 3 registered sex offender), eight-year-long case, has been working for 
over two decades with a succession of agencies in New York and Paris. According to media 
reports, Diane Sawyer produced a segment for CBS's 60 Minutes featuring a sex scandal that 
eventually led Eileen Ford (founder of renowned Ford modeling agency) to stop working with 
Brunel. 
Brunelts latest venture is the modeling agency MC2 based in South Beach, Fla. with satellite 
offices in New York and Tel Aviv. Since his agency is deregulated and "no criminal charges 
have been filed by any of his accusers" — although many have tried to serve him including 
lawyers representing Epstein's victims, Brunel continues to hide behind his French citizenship to 
prevent depositions. "Trawling for 511" underage teenagers to work for his agency. MC2, or 
anyone else who requests, Brunel is free to scout for very young girls without limitations." Given 
his citizenship he also successfully avoided deposition in Epstein's sex related cases. 
Like so many other reporters who have tried to report his side of the story when Jezebel 
contacted Brunel, "he did not respond to our interview request." According to Jezebel: 
27 
we spoke to a number of people who worked with his agency and while MC2 isn't considered a 
major industry player, it isn't exactly bottom-shelf, either... Brunel isn't involved with the 
business on a day-to-day basis, although he owns an 85 percent stake in MC2. Instead, he does 
scouting for the agency and takes care of the international relations with other agencies, reports 
one source. Scouts scour the world for unrepresented teenage girls who could make it as models. 
They work largely unsupervised and are generally paid a headhunting fee for every girl an 
agency signs. Even when affiliated with an agency, as Brunel obviously is with MC2, scouts 
operate mostly independently and with little oversight. The company blog refers to Brunel as a 
'scouting tsunami' and MC2 is fairly well known for the strength of its international scouting. 
Model, Michael Gross's 1995 book, describes Bruners activities in Paris from the late 1970s 
onwards, when he worked for, and eventually owned, the modeling agency Karin. "Jean-Luc is 
considered a danger," says Jerome Bonnouvrier. "Owning Karin was a dream for a playboy. His 
problem is that he knows exactly what girls in trouble are looking for. He's always been on the 
edge of the system." 
John Casablancas, founder of Elite modeling agency said: 
I really despise Jean-Luc as a human being for the way he's cheapened the business. There is no 
justice. This is a guy who should be behind bars. There was a little group, Jean-Luc, Patrick 
Gilles, and Varsano. They were very well known in Paris for roaming the clubs. They would 
invite girls and put drugs in their drinks. Everybody knew they were creeps." Casablancas was a 
professional rival who was pushed out of his agency for questionable concerns. 
Katie Ford human trafficking abolitionist and Eileen Ford's daughter, talked to the Wall Street 
Journal magazine. In that stor‘ "A Model Trade Union," Ford describes herself as a "roving 
ambassador" to help stop human trafficking. Ford sold her stake in the family business in 2007 to 
the private equity firm Stone Tower Equity. "In her new life as a nearly full-time, unpaid, roving 
ambassador for the cause her job is an outgrowth of her former work, rather than a repudiation of 
it, or an atonement. 
Her interest in human trafficking began when a representative of the United Nations called to ask 
if she would participate in a women's leadership group that was studying the issue of trafficking. 
"I said, 'I can't come talk about it, because I don't know anything about it!" Ford recalls. "But 
went, and after two hours, I knew why I was there. The way people traffic across borders is 
parallel to the way we recruit models. According to Ford "the target age is 14 to 24, and so it's 
similar to modeling." I knew how to reach that market" she said, "It was the feeling of: There but 
for the grace of God... The girls who came to us could have been those girls." 
http://jezebel.com/5603638/meet-the-modeling-agent-who-trafficked-underage-girls-for-sex 
The Sex-Trafficking Model Scout 
28 
xpand 
Jeffrey Epstein, the billionaire financier who the FBI believes molested around 40 underaged 
girls, was assisted by a prominent modeling agent and scout. Here's what we know about Jean 
Luc Brunel. 
Jeffrey Epstein, you will no doubt recall, is the man who thought ferrying Bill Clinton on his 
private jet, lawyering up with superstar Alan Dershowitz, and making frequent $100,000 
donations to the Palm Beach Police Department would insulate him from prosecution for his 
various depravities. 
Say you're not as famous or celebrated as Roman Polanski and you want to sexually 
assault...Read more 
Which included, for the record: buying a 14-year-old Yugloslavian named Natalia Marcinkova 
from her parents in order to keep Marcinkova as his "sex slave"; paying a retinue of women to 
trawl Palm Beach for teenagers economically desperate enough to agree to give Epstein 
"massages" that often led to sexual contact; receiving two 12-year-old French girls as a "birthday 
present"; and befriending Michael Wolff. 
But as Conchita Sarnoff wrote at The Daily Beast: 
Perhaps most disturbing, in terms of possible sex trafficking, was Epstein's relationship with Jean 
Luc Brunel, owner of the MC2 modeling agency. According to a complaint filed in the U.S. 
District Court for the Southern District of Florida, an alleged victim said that Epstein, [assistant 
and girlfriend Ghislaine] Maxwell, Brunel, [house manager Alfredo] Rodriguez, and Marcinkova 
'deliberately engaged in a pattern of racketeering that involved luring minor children through 
MC2, mostly girls under the age of 17, to engage in sexual play for money.' 
The FBI investigated Epstein, and identified around 40 underaged victims. Sarnoff reports that 
the FBI is also investigating MC2 and Brunel for possibly engaging in child sex trafficking. 
Since pleading guilty to reduced charges of soliciting sex with a minor and serving 13 months of 
29 
part-time jail, Epstein has become the focus of numerous civil lawsuits from his victims. He has 
so far settled a dozen. 
These same civil complaints allege that young girls from South America, Europe, and the former 
Soviet republics, few of whom spoke English, were recruited for Esptein's sexual pleasure. 
According to a former bookkeeper, a number of the girls worked for MC2, the modeling agency 
owned by Jean Luc Brunel, a longtime acquaintance and frequent guest of Epstein's. 
Brunel, along with numerous young models, was a frequent passenger on Epstein's private jet, 
according to flight manifests. The agency owner also allegedly received $1 million from Epstein 
in 2005, when he founded MC2 with his partner, Jeffrey Fuller; although Fuller and Brunel 
denied any such payment from the billionaire pervert in 2007, when rumors started swirling, 
Sarnoff got confirmation from a former bookkeeper at the agency. Whether the money was a 
secret investment in MC2, or a payment for Brunel's services as a procurer, is unknown. Brunel 
also visited Epstein in jail. 
So who is Jean Luc Brunel? Although he did not respond to our interview request, we spoke to a 
number of people who have worked with his agency. While MC2 isn't considered a major 
industry player, it isn't exactly bottom-shelf, either: MC2 in New York most recently launched 
the career of Latvian editorial star Ginta Lapina (Brunel "discovered" Lapina via an MC2  
scoutina competition for young teens) and currently represents Vogue China covergirl Liu Dan. 
Worldwide, MC2 represents such stars as Sessilee Lopez in Miami, and top models Candace 
Swanepoel, Marina Lynchuk, Natalia Chabanenko, and Elisa Sednaoui in Tel Aviv. 
Brunel isn't involved with the business on a day-to-day basis, although he owns an 85% stake in 
MC2. Instead, "Right now he does scouting for [the] agency and takes care of the international 
relations with other agencies," reports one source. Scouts scour the world for un-agented 
teenaged girls who could make it as models; they work largely unsupervised and are generally 
paid a headhunting fee for every girl an agency signs. Even when affiliated with an agency, as 
Brunel obviously is with MC2, scouts operate mostly independently and with little oversight — 
even relative to the almost totally unregulated modeling industry itself. "He travels a lot," says 
another person who has worked with Brunel. (The company blog refers to Brunel as a "scouting 
tsunami." and MC2 is fairly well-known for the strength of its international scouting.) 
Models we spoke to report mostly positive experiences with Brunel — one praised his sense of 
humor and said he is "lovely to all of his models," and another described him as highly 
intelligent and cultured, adding, "he knows a lot about the opera and he paints" — although it 
should be noted that none of the models whom we spoke to had been told of either his 
connections with Epstein, or his past. 
And what a past it is. These accounts from Michael Gross' 1995 book Model describe Brunel's 
activities in Paris from the late 1970s onwards, when he worked for, and eventually owned, the 
modeling agency Karins, now known as Karin Paris: 
"Jean-Luc is considered a danger," says Jerome Bonnouvrier. "Owning Karins was a dream for a 
playboy. His problem is that he knows exactly what girls in trouble are looking for. He's always 
30 
been on the edge of the system. John Casablancas gets with girls the healthy way. Girls would be 
with him if he was the butcher. They're with Jean-Luc because he's the boss. Jean-Luc likes 
drugs and silent rape. It excites him." 
"I really despise Jean-Luc as a human being for the way he's cheapened the business," says John 
Casablancas. "There is no justice. This is a guy who should be behind bars. There was a little 
group, Jean-Luc, Patrick Gilles, and Varsano...They were very well-known in Paris for roaming 
the clubs. They would invite girls and put drugs in their drinks. Everybody knew they were 
creeps." 
It should be noted that aside from being a professional rival, Casablancas, the founder of the 
agency Elite, was eventually drubbed out of the industry for his own modelizing. How pervy do 
you have to be for John Casablancas to call you a perv? 
Pervy enough to drug and rape numerous teenagers, according to 60 Minutes and Diane Sawyer, 
who investigated Brunel in 1988. The program interviewed nearly two dozen models who said 
they had been sexually assaulted by Brunel andJor by his fellow agent, Claude Haddad. Even at 
that time, Brunel had a reputation as a man one could go to to procure a "date" with a young 
model. CBS spoke to five models who said that Brunel and/or his friends had drugged and raped 
them. Said producer Craig Pyes, "Hundreds of girls were not only harassed, but molested." 
When Gross interviewed Brunel, this is what he had to say for himself: 
"You get laid tonight with a model, is that a crime? I don't understand why people go into your 
personal life, what you do yourself, and to yourself, and they don't look at things that are really 
important." 
Since then, Brunel has been involved with a succession of agencies in New York and Paris. 
Although the 60 Minutes scandal eventually led Eileen Ford to stop working with him, he 
continued his involvement with Karins. In 1988, when powerhouse agency Next opened its 
doors, Brunel took an ownership stake. He also "discovered" Christy Turlington when she was 
14. MC2 is only his latest venture. Because no criminal charges were ever filed by any of his 
accusers, and because the industry has a short memory — most models working today weren't 
even born when Sawyer and Pyes started looking into Brunel's activities — Brunel has been free 
to continue as he pleases. A French citizen, he even avoided testifying in his friend Epstein's 
trial. 
And so Brunel is still criss-crossing the globe, trawling for 5'10" 13-year-olds from Eastern 
Europe and (the NA, h iter parts of) South America. And apparently taking the occasional ride with 
them on Epstein's private jet. Is there any better argument for the regulation of the modeling 
industry? 
http://nypost.com/2011/11/18/j effrey-epsteins-level-3-sex-offender-status-upheld-by-ny-appeal s-
court/ 
31 
Jeffrey Epstein's Level 3 sex offender status 
upheld by NY appeals court 
By Dareh Gregorian  
November 18, 20111 5:00am 
Multimillionaire pery Jeffrey Epstein may not consider his Florida conviction for soliciting a 
minor a big deal, but New York does. 
A state appeals court yesterday upheld the financier's status as a Level 3 sex offender — 
meaning he's considered "a threat to public safety" and a "high risk" to offend again. 
Epstein, 58, did 13 months in a Florida jail for soliciting a minor to perform a sex act on him 
during a "massage." 
Although he was never indicted or convicted for hiring any other underage girls, the state 
Appellate Division found there was "clear and convincing evidence" he had indeed done so, 
making the Level 3 designation appropriate. 
32 
http://pagesix.com/2007/10/06/model-shop-denies-epstein-tie/ 
MODEL SHOP DENIES EPSTEIN TIE 
By PageSix.com Staff- October 6, 2007 1 9:00am 
THE owners of MC2 models are denying industry speculation that massage maven Jeffrey 
Epstein is a secret financial backer of the agency being run by scandal-scarred Jean-Luc 
Brunel, who was once accused of taking advantage of underage models. 
Epstein, who this week agreed to plead guilty to soliciting underage prostitutes at his Florida 
mansion in a deal that will send him to prison for about 18 months, reportedly gave "millions" to 
start MC2, which opened in October 2005 with offices in New York, Miami and Tel Aviv. One 
of the girls Epstein, 54, was accused of soliciting massages from was described in court 
documents as being just 14. 
"E equals MC squared . . . get it, like the equation? E equals Epstein. He just thinks everyone is 
too dumb to figure it out," said a model industry insider. "He's a desperate old man that 
fantasizes and takes advantage of young girls." 
The trouble doesn't stop there. 
Karins Models founder Brunel, who's currently a partner in MC2, denied allegations in a 1997 
"60 Minutes" segment that he took advantage of young models who were high on drugs. Brunel 
also reportedly left his Trump Tower digs in 1999 after complaints of night carousing, which he 
also denied. 
Disgraced former Elite models exec Gerald Marie is also involved with MC2, says our source. 
Marie was accused of having sex with underage models in a 1999 BBC documentary where he 
was filmed saying he hoped to seduce contestants in a modeling contest in which the average age 
of participants was 15. He also dated Linda Evangelista when she was a teen. 
"He's also involved in the agency," said the source. "Gerald and Jean-Luc like the same things. 
They hang out because they have young girls in common, like two guys who enjoy the same 
wine." 
MC2 president Jeffrey Fuller confirmed Brunel was a partner in the company, but denied any 
working relationship with either Epstein or Marie. 
"We have no relationship business-wise with Gerald Marie. Jeffrey Epstein has no ownership or 
involvement in our company and never has. Jean-Luc Brunel and 1 are the only two partners and 
owners of MC2 Model Management," Fuller said. 
Epstein's rep said he was not involved in the agency. "He has no business relationship with 
them," said Howard Rubenstein. 
33 
http://www.palmbeachdailynews.cominews/news/lawsuit-doeuments-link-jeffrey-epstein-
to-modeling/nMGzHi 
Lawsuit documents link Jeffrey Epstein to 
modeling agency owner Jean Luc Brunel 
By Michele Daman  
Daily News Staff Writer 
New court filings in a civil case filed by billionaire sex offender Jeffrey Epstein link Epstein and 
Jean Luc Brunel, owner of modeling agency MC2. 
The documents say MC2 employees told attorney Brad Edwards that Epstein's condos at 301 E. 
66th St. in New York City were used to house young models. 
Edwards, who has sued Epstein on behalf of several women claiming to be victims of sex abuse 
by Epstein, was told MC2 brought underage girls in from all over the world, promising them 
modeling contracts. 
"Epstein and Brunel would then obtain a visa for these girls, then would charge the underage 
girls rent," the documents say. 
Through the investigation of his lawsuits against Epstein, Edwards learned Brunel "runs the 
modeling agency MC2, a company for which Epstein provides financial support," the documents 
say. 
They also allege Epstein tried to thwart Edwards from taking depositions of Brunel, Epstein's 
companion Guislaine Maxwell, and other high-profile names such as President Bill Clinton. 
Details are listed in more than 62 pages filed by attorney Jack Scarola on behalf of Edwards in 
the lawsuit Epstein filed against Edwards. Edwards represents four of Epstein's minor victims, 
three of whom have settled their cases with Epstein under a confidential agreement. 
Epstein attorneys Christopher Knight and Joseph Ackerman declined to comment Friday on the 
court filings. 
Edwards deposed Brunel, but his attorney delayed it and then said he was back in France with no 
plans to return. But according to the court papers, Brunel was staying with Epstein in Palm 
Beach during that period. 
34 
The court filings describe Brunel as one of Epstein's closest pals. 
Regarding Maxwell, the documents refer to sworn testimony by Epstein's former house 
manager, Alfredo Rodriguez, explaining how Maxwell took photos of girls without the girls' 
knowledge, "kept the images on her computer, knew the names of the underage girls and their 
respective phone numbers and other underage victims." 
According to the documents: Maxwell allegedly lied about her mother being ill and having to fly 
back to England one day before a scheduled deposition in Edwards' case against Epstein. 
Despite that assertion, Maxwell was captured in a photo for OK magazine, attending the wedding 
of Chelsea Clinton two days later. 
Epstein has settled more than two dozen lawsuits and claims against him by young women who 
say they were lured to his El Brillo Way mansion as teens to give him sexually charged massages 
and/or sex in exchange for money. The terms of all settlements are confidential. 
Rodriguez took a journal from Epstein's computer that listed the names of his underage victims 
from around the country and the world. Calling it the "Holy Grail," Rodriguez tried to sell the 
journal for $50,000 to victims' attorneys. He pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice and is 
serving 18 months in federal prison. 
Epstein, 57, served 13 months of an 18-month state sentence. He ended his one-year probation in 
July on state charges of soliciting prostitution and soliciting a minor for prostitution. 
According to flight logs from Epstein's private planes, Clinton flew several times on Epstein's 
planes, many times with Maxwell, Palm Beach resident Sarah Kellen and Adriana Mucinska — 
"all employees and/or co-conspirators of Epstein's," according to the court papers. 
The documents show that Clinton flew with Epstein, "then suddenly stopped — raising the 
suspicion that the friendship abruptly ended ... 
"Epstein's personal phone directory from his computer contains e-mail addresses for Clinton 
along with 21 phone numbers for him ... and what appears to be Clinton's personal numbers," the 
court papers say. 
Allegations in the documents say Epstein threatened victims — including Edwards' client Jane 
Doe — despite no-contact orders in effect. 
Epstein had Doe tailed by a private investigator as her trial date neared, the court filings say. One 
time, Doe was so frightened that she fled her home in the company of a retired police officer and 
was taken to a hiding place, according to the court papers. 
http://slaverytoday.org/that-gorgeous-underage-ad-model-may-be-trafficked-and-owned-
regulation-for-agencies-to-stop-child-sex-trafficking/ 
35 
That Gorgeous Underage Model May Be A 
Slave: Regulation For Agencies To Stop Child 
Sex Trafficking 
First came the knowledge that slaves still existed and were present in larger numbers than ever 
before. Then the realization that a human being could be purchased within a few hours of my 
home for under $100. Now only a few miles away. In the following years I've been learning the 
myriad forms, places and types of slavery. The list keeps lengthening and with each new form 
(to me), I learn about, it knocks me down, one more time. 
Slavery 
Debt Bondage 
Sexual Slavery 
Child Brides 
Forced Labor 
Child Soldiers 
Adoption Trafficking 
Organ Trqfficking 
Trafficked Athletes 
And now a new one I should have seen coming. 
Those very young, foreign models you see? Some of them were trekked by model scouts who 
literally trawled through some of the most destitute and vulnerable people on earth for them. The 
same methods as other predatory trekkers; Go to politically or economically unstable areas; 
locate 5'l1" beautiful young girls; buy them, import them, own them, use them. 
Horrible irony to have images that portray us to the world possibly be of slaves. 
It's hard to think of an area of our society that doesn't admire seeing it's most vaunted members 
with a model on their arm. While this observation does not imply that those people were 
trafficked, imagine how simple that makes it to approach a child or it family anywhere in the 
world and offer them this in return for absolute control. 
All the traffickers have to do is pull out a magazine or phone with videos on it. 
I'm not shocked at traffickers using this method of promises to lure unsuspecting girls into 
slavery, I've seen it, read about it, studied it. I'm in shock that it flourishes in the most visible, 
36 
glaring spotlight of our culture, the part that worhips and presents our current idea of beauty in 
almost everything we touch. 
These victims are on the most prominent slave block ever, emulated by our children, coveted by 
our culture-makers and our society, and standing in the brightest global spotlight in the 
world. In plain sight, reported on in numerous stories for decades and yet only escalating in 
usage until they've become the golden mean. 
We can quietly ignore the ones resold daily in our town, who made our clothes, chocolate, 
housewares, provided the gold on our fingers and necks, electronics in our hands, labor in our 
fields. Here, finally, are slaves we fantasize about being, emulating, allow our society to be 
shaped by, consider trophies. 
What will this say about us if we don't drastically change it? All of it. 
Katie Ford walked away from an empire the first time she learned about slavery. she 's working 
to change with this thing she recognized to be permeating the industry. That is courage. 
Regulating Modeling Agencies to Help Prevent Child Sex Trafficking 
Conchita Samoll 
Posted: 02/10/2012 8:49 pm 
In 2010, Jezebel, an online site, published "The Sex Trafficking Model Scout" warning about the 
dangers of deregulated modeling agencies in the U.S. 
Given the growing number of modeling agencies that transport underage teenagers from foreign 
countries into the United States and the growing sex trade of underage girls in the U.S. why does 
this industry remain deregulated? 
Since the advent of this business, modeling agencies have had free reign to scout teenagers from 
every state in the country as well as every nation in the world. Many of these teenage girls come 
from economically disadvantaged families and are offered none to very limited protection while 
traveling and working as "models." 
Jezebel reported that Jean Luc Brunel, one of the cast of characters involved in the ongoing 
Jeffrey Epstein (a level 3 registered sex offender), eight-year-long case, has been working for 
over two decades with a succession of agencies in New York and Paris. According to media 
reports, Diane Sawyer produced a segment for CBS's 60 Minutes featuring a sex scandal that 
eventually led Eileen Ford (founder of renowned Ford modeling agency) to stop working with 
Brunel. 
Brunel's latest venture is the modeling agency MC2 based in South Beach, Fla. with satellite 
offices in New York and Tel Aviv. Since his agency is deregulated and "no criminal charges 
have been filed by any of his accusers" — although many have tried to serve him including 
lawyers representing Epstein's victims, Brunel continues to hide behind his French citizenship to 
37 
prevent depositions. "Trawling for 5'11" underage teenagers to work for his agency, MC2, or 
anyone else who requests, Brunel is free to scout for very young girls without limitations." Given 
his citizenship he also successfully avoided deposition in Epstein's sex related cases. 
Like so many other reporters who have tried to report his side of the story when Jezebel 
contacted Brunel, "he did not respond to our interview request." According to Jezebel: 
we spoke to a number of people who worked with his agency and while MC2 isn't considered a 
major industry player, it isn't exactly bottom-shelf, either... Brunel isn't involved with the 
business on a day-to-day basis, although he owns an 85 percent stake in MC2. Instead, he does 
scouting for the agency and takes care of the international relations with other agencies, reports 
one source. Scouts scour the world for unrepresented teenage girls who could make it as models. 
They work largely unsupervised and are generally paid a headhunting fee for every girl an 
agency signs. Even when affiliated with an agency, as Brunel obviously is with MC2, scouts 
operate mostly independently and with little oversight. The company blog refers to Brunel as a 
'scouting tsunami' and MC2 is fairly well known for the strength of its international scouting. 
Model, Michael Gross's 1995 book, describes Brunel's activities in Paris from the late 1970s 
onwards, when he worked for, and eventually owned, the modeling agency Karin. "Jean-Luc is 
considered a danger," says Jerome Bonnouvrier. "Owning Karin was a dream for a playboy. His 
problem is that he knows exactly what girls in trouble are looking for. He's always been on the 
edge of the system." 
John Casablancas, founder of Elite modeling agency said: 
I really despise Jean-Luc as a human being for the way he's cheapened the business. There is no 
justice. This is a guy who should be behind bars. There was a little group, Jean-Luc, Patrick 
Gilles, and Varsano. They were very well known in Paris for roaming the clubs. They would 
invite girls and put drugs in their drinks. Everybody knew they were creeps." Casablancas was a 
professional rival who was pushed out of his agency for questionable concerns. 
Katie Ford human trafficking abolitionist and Eileen Ford's daughter, talked to the Wall Street 
Journaimagazine. In that story "A Model Trade Union," Ford describes herself as a "roving 
ambassador" to help stop human trafficking. Ford sold her stake in the family business in 2007 to 
the private equity firm Stone Tower Equity. "In her new life as a nearly full-time, unpaid, roving 
ambassador for the cause her job is an outgrowth of her former work, rather than a repudiation of 
it, or an atonement. 
Her interest in human trafficking began when a representative of the United Nations called to ask 
if she would participate in a women's leadership group that was studying the issue of trafficking. 
"I said, 'I can't come talk about it, because I don't know anything about it!" Ford recalls. "But I 
went, and after two hours, I knew why I was there. The way people traffic across borders is 
parallel to the way we recruit models. According to Ford "the target age is 14 to 24, and so it's 
similar to modeling." I knew how to reach that market" she said, "It was the feeling of: There but 
for the grace of God... The girls who came to us could have been those girls." 
38 
http://slaverytoday.org/that-gorgeous-underage-ad-model-may-be-trafficked-and-owned-
regulation-for-agencies-to-stop-child-sex-trafficking/ 
That Gorgeous Underage Model May Be A 
Slave: Regulation For Agencies To Stop Child 
Sex Trafficking 
First came the knowledge that slaves still existed and were present in larger numbers than ever 
before. Then the realization that a human being could be purchased within a few hours of my 
home for under $100. Now only a few miles away. In the following years I've been learning the 
myriad forms, places and types of slavery. The list keeps lengthening and with each new form 
(to me), I learn about , it knocks me down, one more time. 
Slavery 
Debt Bondage 
Sexual Slavery 
Child Brides 
Forced Labor 
Child Soldiers 
Adoption Trafficking 
Organ Trekking 
Trqfficked Athletes 
And now a new one I should have seen coming. 
Those very young, foreign models you see? Some of them were trafficked by model scouts who 
literally trawled through some of the most destitute and vulnerable people on earth for them. The 
same methods as other predatory trqffickers; Go to politically or economically unstable areas; 
locate 5 '1 I" beautiful young girls; buy them, import them, own them, use them. 
Horrible irony to have images that portray us to the world possibly be of slaves. 
It hard to think of an area of our society that doesn't admire seeing it's most vaunted members 
with a model on their arm. While this observation does not imply that those people were 
trqfficked, imagine how simple that makes it to approach a child or it's family anywhere in the 
world and offer them this in return for absolute control. 
All the traffickers have to do is pull out a magazine or phone with videos on it. 
39 
I'm not shocked at trqffickers using this method qfprornise.s to lure unsuspecting girls into 
slavery, I've seen it, read about it, studied it. I'm in shock that it .flourishes in the most visible, 
glaring spotlight of our culture, the part that worhips and presents our current idea of beauty in 
almost everything we touch. 
These victims are on the most prominent slave block ever, emulated by our children, coveted by 
our culture-makers and our society, and standing in the brightest global spotlight in the 
world. In plain sight, reported on in numerous stories for decades and yet only escalating in 
usage until they've become the golden mean. 
We can quietly ignore the ones resold daily in our town, who made our clothes, chocolate, 
housewares, provided the gold on our fingers and necks, electronics in our hands, labor in our 
fields. Here, finally, are slaves we fantasize about being, emulating, allow our society to be 
shaped by, consider trophies. 
What will this say about us if we don't drastically change it? All of it. 
Katie Ford walked away from an empire the first time she learned about slavery. she 's working 
to change with this thing she recognized to be permeating the industry. That is courage. 
Regulating Modeling Agencies to Help Prevent Child Sex Trafficking 
Conchita Samar 
Posted: 02/10/2012 8:49 pm 
In 2010, Jezebel, an online site, published "The Sex Trafficking Model Scout" warning about the 
dangers of deregulated modeling agencies in the U.S. 
Given the growing number of modeling agencies that transport underage teenagers from foreign 
countries into the United States and the growing sex trade of underage girls in the U.S. why does 
this industry remain deregulated? 
Since the advent of this business, modeling agencies have had free reign to scout teenagers from 
every state in the country as well as every nation in the world. Many of these teenage girls come 
from economically disadvantaged families and are offered none to very limited protection while 
traveling and working as "models." 
Jezebel reported that Jean Luc Brunel, one of the cast of characters involved in the ongoing 
Jeffrey Epstein (a level 3 registered sex offender), eight-year-long case, has been working for 
over two decades with a succession of agencies in New York and Paris. According to media 
reports, Diane Sawyer produced a segment for CBS's 60 Minutes featuring a sex scandal that 
eventually led Eileen Ford (founder of renowned Ford modeling agency) to stop working with 
Brunel. 
Brunel's latest venture is the modeling agency MC2 based in South Beach, Fla. with satellite 
offices in New York and Tel Aviv. Since his agency is deregulated and "no criminal charges 
40 
have been filed by any of his accusers" — although many have tried to serve him including 
lawyers representing Epstein's victims, Brunel continues to hide behind his French citizenship to 
prevent depositions. "Trawling for 5'11" underage teenagers to work for his agency, MC2, or 
anyone else who requests, Brunel is free to scout for very young girls without limitations." Given 
his citizenship he also successfully avoided deposition in Epstein's sex related cases. 
Like so many other reporters who have tried to report his side of the story when Jezebel 
contacted Brunel, "he did not respond to our interview request." According to Jezebel: 
we spoke to a number of people who worked with his agency and while MC2 isn't considered a 
major industry player, it isn't exactly bottom-shelf, either... Brunel isn't involved with the 
business on a day-to-day basis, although he owns an 85 percent stake in MC2. Instead, he does 
scouting for the agency and takes care of the international relations with other agencies, reports 
one source. Scouts scour the world for unrepresented teenage girls who could make it as models. 
They work largely unsupervised and are generally paid a headhunting fee for every girl an 
agency signs. Even when affiliated with an agency, as Brunel obviously is with MC2, scouts 
operate mostly independently and with little oversight. The company blog refers to Brunel as a 
'scouting tsunami' and MC2 is fairly well known for the strength of its international scouting. 
Model, Michael Gross's 1995 book, describes Brunel's activities in Paris from the late 1970s 
onwards, when he worked for, and eventually owned, the modeling agency Karin. "Jean-Luc is 
considered a danger," says Jerome Bonnouvrier. "Owning Karin was a dream for a playboy. His 
problem is that he knows exactly what girls in trouble are looking for. He's always been on the 
edge of the system." 
John Casablancas, founder of Elite modeling agency said: 
I really despise Jean-Luc as a human being for the way he's cheapened the business. There is no 
justice. This is a guy who should be behind bars. There was a little group, Jean-Luc, Patrick 
Gilles, and Varsano. They were very well known in Paris for roaming the clubs. They would 
invite girls and put drugs in their drinks. Everybody knew they were creeps." Casablancas was a 
professional rival who was pushed out of his agency for questionable concerns. 
Katie Ford human trafficking abolitionist and Eileen Ford's daughter, talked to the Wall Street 
Journaimagazine. In that story "A Model Trade Union," Ford describes herself as a "roving 
ambassador" to help stop human trafficking. Ford sold her stake in the family business in 2007 to 
the private equity firm Stone Tower Equity. "In her new life as a nearly full-time, unpaid, roving 
ambassador for the cause her job is an outgrowth of her former work, rather than a repudiation of 
it, or an atonement. 
Her interest in human trafficking began when a representative of the United Nations called to ask 
if she would participate in a women's leadership group that was studying the issue of trafficking. 
"I said, 'I can't come talk about it, because I don't know anything about it!" Ford recalls. "But I 
went, and after two hours, I knew why I was there. The way people traffic across borders is 
parallel to the way we recruit models. According to Ford "the target age is 14 to 24, and so it's 
41 
similar to modeling." I knew how to reach that market" she said, "It was the feeling of: There but 
for the grace of God... The girls who came to us could have been those girls." 
42 
http://files.wallstreetfolly.com/wordpress/2007/10/jeffrey-
epstein-doesnt-want-to-be-branded-as-a-sex-offender-for-
life-and-no-hes-not-a-m odeling-agency-secret-sugar-daddy-
or-so-its-owners-say/ 
Jeffrey Epstein doesn't want to be branded as a "sex  
offender" for life, and no, he's not a modeling agency secret 
sugar daddy (or so its owners say) 
Posted by WSF On October - 9 - 2007 
\ 
inerrelftECI 
arty-Ham 
Jeffrey Epstein, Epstein, the billionaire money manager who's agreed to plead guilty to soliciting 
underaged hookers and go away for 18 months, doesn't want to be branded a "sex offender" for 
life. Page Six says his lawyers are thinking about asking prosecutors to drop that requirement 
from his plea agreement: 
In a letter drafted, but not sent, to U.S. 
Attorney Alexander Costa and obtained by Page Six, Epstein's lawyer, Gerald 
Lefcourt, writes, "Doing so will have a profound impact [on Epstein] both 
immediately and forever after. Not only will he be restricted to a wholly 
inappropriate penal facility, but he will be required for the rest of his life 
to account for his whereabouts." 
Meanwhile, over the weekend Page Six said that owners of MC2 modeling, run by Jean-Luc 
Brunel — who's also been accused of favoring underaged models in the past — claim that 
Epstein is not the secret deep pockets behind the firm, no matter what others say or speculate. 
43 
Epstein, __reportedly gave 
"millions" to start MC2, which opened in October 2005 with offices in 
New York, Miami and Tel Aviv. One of the girls Epstein, 54, was accused of 
soliciting massages from was described in court documents as being just 14. 
"E equals MC squared. . . get it, 
like the equation? E equals Epstein. He just thinks everyone is too dumb to 
figure it out," said a model industry insider. "He's a desperate old 
man that fantasizes and takes advantage of young girls." 
"Jeffrey Epstein has no ownership or involvement in our company and never has. Jean-Luc 
Brunel and I are the only two partners and owners of MC2 Model Management," [Jeffrey] Fuller 
said. [MC2 President] 
44 
http://www.washingtonpost.comincws/volokh-conspiracy/wp/2014/04/21/eleventh-circuit-rules-
that-discovery-can-move-forward-on-my-crime-victims-rights-act-case/ 
The Volokh Conspiracy  
Eleventh Circuit rules that discovery can 
move forward on my Crime Victims' Rights 
Act case 
By Paul Cassell April 21 
On Friday,the Ilth Circuit ruled that discovery can move forward in an important Crime 
Victims' Rights Act case that my co-counsel, Brad Edwards, and I are pursuing. The narrow 
issue before the court was whether prosecutors and defense attorneys could assert some sort of 
"privilege" to prevent crime victims from reviewing the correspondence that lead to a plea 
bargain. More broadly, the ruling means that the victims will have a chance to return to the 
district court and seek to invalidate a plea agreement that (we alleged) was consummated in 
violation of their rights. I hope that the case will ultimately set an important precedent that 
federal prosecutors can't keep victims in the dark about the plea deals that they reach. 
Here are the important facts, taken from the 11th Circuit's opinion: The case arose in 2006, the 
FBI began investigating allegations that wealthy investor Jeffrey Epstein had sexually abused 
dozens and dozens of minor girls. The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of Florida 
accepted Epstein's case for prosecution, and the FBI issued victim notification letters to my two 
clients, minors Jane Doe No. 1 and Jane Doe No. 2, in June and August 2007. Extensive plea 
negotiations ensued between the prosecutors and Epstein. On Sept. 24, 2007, the prosecutors 
entered into a non-prosecution agreement with Epstein in which they agreed not to file any 
federal charges against Epstein in exchange for his guilty plea to minor Florida offenses (e.g., 
solicitation of prostitution). Not only did the prosecutors neglect to confer with the victims 
before they entered into the agreement with Epstein, they also concealed its existence for at least 
nine months. For example, the prosecutors sent post-agreement letters to the victims reporting 
that the "case is currently under investigation" and explaining that "[t]his can be a lengthy 
process and we request your continued patience while we conduct a thorough investigation." 
On June 27, 2008, the prosecutors informed my co-counsel, Brad Edwards, that Epstein planned 
to plead guilty to the Florida charges three days later. But the prosecutors failed to disclose that 
Epstein's pleas to those state charges arose from his federal non-prosecution agreement and that 
the pleas would bar a federal prosecution. As a result, the victims did not attend the state court 
proceedings. 
45 
On July 7, 2008, Edwards and I filed a petition alleging that Jane Doe No. 1 was a victim of 
federal sex crimes committed by Epstein and that the United States had wrongfully excluded her 
from plea negotiations. We also alleged that the federal prosecutors had violated her rights under 
the Crime Victims' Rights Act (CVRA) — specifically her rights to confer with the government, 
to be treated with fairness, to receive timely notice of relevant court proceedings, and to receive 
information about restitution. The United States responded by claiming that it used its "best 
efforts" to comply with the rights afforded to victims under the CVRA, but that the act did not 
apply to pre-indictment negotiations with potential federal defendants. 
After Jane Doe No. 2 joined the initial petition, the district court (Marra, J.) found that both 
women qualified as "crime victims" under the CVRA. The district court later  rejected the  
government's argument that the act only applies after the filing of a federal criminal 
indictment. (I've written a law review article about the issue of how early crime victims' rights 
attach in the criminal process, which can be downloaded here.) 
Among other relief, we sought rescission of the non-prosecution agreement as a remedy for the 
violation of the victims' rights. To make the case for such a remedy, we moved for discovery of 
the correspondence between the U.S. and Epstein's attorneys during the plea negotiations. 
Epstein's attorneys intervened, arguing that Federal Rule of Evidence 410 and Federal Rule of 
Criminal Procedure 11 create a privilege for plea negotiations, barring release of the 
correspondence. They also argued that the court should find that the materials were protected 
under the work product doctrine or, alternatively, should be protected under a new "common-
law privilege for plea negotiations." 
The district court first ruled that rescission of the plea agreement was a possible remedy under 
the act. The court then ruled that we were entitled to review the correspondence, rejecting all of 
Epstein's arguments. 
On Friday, the 11th Circuit affirmed the district court's ruling that we could review the plea  
correspondence. At pp. 18-22 of its published opinion, the court concluded that there was no 
basis for restricting access to such correspondence when crime victims have a legitimate need to 
review it. The court rejected, for example, the work product argument because plea discussions 
are not confidential: 
Disclosure of work-product materials to an adversary waives the work-product privilege. See, 
e.g., In re Chrysler Motors Corp. Overnight Evaluation Program Litig., 860 F.2d 844, 846 (8th 
Cir. 1988); In re Doe, 662 F.2d 1073, 1081-82 (4th Cir. 1981). Even jilt shared the common 
goal of reaching a quick settlement, the United States was undoubtedly adverse to Epstein during 
its investigation of him for federal offenses, and the intervenors' disclosure of their work product 
waived any claim of privilege. 
The court also declined to recognize a new privilege for plea bargaining, finding the relationship 
between prosecutors and defense attorneys did not need special protection: 
As a last-ditch effort, the intervenors contend that "[i]f more is needed in addition to the plain 
language of Rule 410 to preclude disclosure of the correspondence to plaintiffs, it can be found 
46 
in the conjunction of Rule 410, the work-product privilege, and the Sixth Amendment right to 
the effective assistance of counsel in the plea bargaining process," but this novel argument fails 
too. As explained above, Rule 410 does not create a privilege and the intervenors waived any 
work-product privilege. The intervenors concede too that the right to counsel under the Sixth 
Amendment had not yet attached when the correspondence was exchanged. Lumley v. City of 
Dade City, Fla., 327 F.3d 1186, 1195 (11th Cir. 2003) ("111he Sixth Amendment right to 
counsel ordinarily does not arise until there is a formal commitment by the government to 
prosecute," such as a "formal charge, preliminary hearing, indictment, information, or 
arraignment."). The "conjunctive" power of three false claims of privilege does not rescue the 
correspondence from disclosure. . . . 
The Supreme Court has identified several considerations relevant to whether a court should 
recognize an evidentiary privilege—the needs of the public, whether the privilege is rooted in the 
imperative for confidence and trust, the evidentiary benefit of the denial of the privilege, and any 
consensus among the states, Jaffee v. Redmond, 518 U.S. 1, 10-15 (1996)—but none of these 
considerations weighs in favor of recognizing a new privilege to prevent discovery of the plea 
negotiations. Although plea negotiations are vital to the functioning of the criminal justice 
system, a prosecutor and target of a criminal investigation do not enjoy a relationship of 
confidence and trust when they negotiate. Their adversarial relationship, unlike the confidential 
relationship of a doctor and patient or attorney and client, warrants no privilege beyond the terms 
of Rule 410. See Jaffee, 518 U.S. at 10. But the victims would enjoy an evidentiary benefit from 
the disclosure of plea negotiations to prove whether the United States violated their rights under 
the Act. 
Moving forward, this case raises the important issue of what kinds of remedies are available for 
violations of the Crime Victims' Rights Act. Our complaint alleges that, prodded by Epstein, the 
federal prosecutors deliberately concealed the sweetheart plea deal they had reached with him to 
avoid public criticism of the deal. I am hopeful that in future district court proceedings, we will 
be able to prove that clear violation of the CVRA and then obtain the remedy of invalidating the 
illegally-negotiated plea deal. 
Paul G. Cassell teaches criminal law, criminal procedure, and crime victims' rights at the S.J. 
Quinney College of Law at the University of Utah. Before coming to Utah, he was President of 
the Stanford Law Review, a law clerk for then-Judge Antonin Scalia on the D.C. Circuit and for 
Chief Justice Warren Burger of the Supreme Court, an Associate Deputy Attorney General with 
the U.S. Justice Department (1986-88), and an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of 
Virginia (1988 to 1991). Cassell joined the faculty at the University of Utah College of Law in 
1992, where he taught full time until he was sworn in as a U.S. District Court Judge for the 
District of Utah in 2002. In 2007, he resigned his judgeship to return full time to the College of 
Law, to teach, write, and litigate on issues relating to crime victims' rights and criminal justice 
reform. 
47 
--------Original message-------- 
From: Jolanta MOD1LINOS 
Date:15/10/2014 4:46 PM (GMT+02:00) 
To: Jean Luc Brunel 
Subject: 
Dear Jean Luc, 
Hope that you stay fine. 
As per our conversation about placement of her with you in NYC and Miami, she said she found 
some article in internet , which changed her position and she preferred to be placed with another 
agency.. 
I am so sorry, but people believes in media more than in us sometimes, what is sad! 
Warmest regards 
Jolania Sadauskiene 
owner 
MODILINOS model agency MODILINOS models 
Parodos 7-4, Kaunas Sv.Stepono 7, Vilnius 
tellfax:+37037323257 cell:+37069816103 
iolantaAmodilinos.coni Thfo4modilinos.corn  
www.modilinos.corn 
EXHIBIT B 
From: "Vladimir Yudashkin © 1 MotherAgency" 
Date:17/10/2014 10:46 AM (GMT+02:00) 
To: Jean Luc Brunel 
Subject: The situation with Liza Zazdravnih 
Dear JeanLuc, 
Unfortunately I need to announce that Liza Zazdravnih rejected signing the contract with MC2 in United 
Sates. Initially she intended to sign the contract, but later on she came across that article in internet about 
you involved in illegal activities with young models. This information somehow changed her intentions 
completely. she is ready to be a model and consider contracts with other agencies, but she has 
suspicions that you will force her to illegal activities and she made the decision to don't put her self in risk. 
Lets keep in touch. I will be happy to work with you next time if we have another right model for you. Im 
upset that it didn't work out with Liza 
Sincerely, 
Vladimir 
Vladimir Yudashkin 
Director 
EXHIBIT C 
-------- Original message-------- 
From: Manuela - Mega Partners 
Date:17/10/2014 9:36 PM (GMT+02:00) 
To: Jean Luc Brunel 
Subject: MC2 
Dear Jean Luc, 
I'm very happy to hear you're coming to the agency with Vini so we can talk about us working 
with MC2 again. 
I don't need to remind you that the sex trafficking allegations have stopped us from working with • 
your agency for the past 5-6 years — but as Vinicius is my friend, I will try to find a girl that 
already knows and trusts him to place with you. 
Thank you very much for the lovely bag and we'll see each other on fashion week. 
Kisses, 
Manuela 
rn 
MEGA 
PARTNERS 
MANUELA W MARTINEZ 
International Relations 
Phone: +5611 3818.4800 
Direct: +55 11 3818.4827 
Cell.: +5511 98668.0090 
megainodelbrasil.corn.br 
EXHIBIT D 
Original Message----- 
From: Lorraine <lorraine@mc2mm.com> 
Organization: MC2 MM 
Reply-To: <lorraine@mc2mm.com> 
Date: Friday, August 27, 2010 at 8:49 PM 
To: <jeff@mc2mm.com>, Jean Luc Brunel <jeanluc@mc2mm.com>, Pink 
<pink@mc2mm.com> 
Subject: FW: Press Inquiry from AFP (Agence France Presse) 
Videographer--Michelle Stockman 
-----Original Message----- 
>From: Michelle STOCKMAN [mailto:Michelle.Stockman@afp.conn] 
>Sent: Friday, August 27, 2010 11:03 AM 
>To: lorraine@mc2mm.com 
>Subject: Press Inquiry from AFP (Agence France Presse) 
>Videographer--Michelle Stockman 
>My name is Michelle Stockman and I am a video journalist for Agence France 
>Presse, the French newswire. We produce 1.5 to 2 min. videos that are 
>distributed internationally to broadcast clients in Europe and Asia, and 
>Internet clients worldwide. In preparation for Fashion Week, my print 
>colleague and I are interested in doing a piece on trends in casting 
>models 
>of color. I was wondering if you could refer me to a model of color and a 
>casting director who can comment on her experience. 
>My deadline is next week, so I would like to set something up for Monday 
>or 
>Tuesday. I can come to you as I am a one-person camera crew. When you 
>have 
>a moment, please let me know. I'd be happy to discuss with you over the 
>phone ahead of time. 
>Best regards, 
>Michelle Stockman 
>Michelle Stockman 
>747 Third Avenue, 35th Floor 
>New York, NY 10017 
EXHIBIT E 
>917-533-3261 
>www.youtube.com/AFP 
>Agence France-Presse is the world's oldest newswire with journalists in 
>165 
>countries. We publish worldwide in English, French, Spanish, German, 
>Portuguese and Arabic. AFP delivers the news to thousands of media outlets 
>worldwide from newspapers to magazines, radio and TV stations and online 
>services. It reaches an audience of more than one billion people daily. 
>This e-mail, and any file transmitted with it, is confidential and 
>intended 
>solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom it is addressed. If 
>you have received this email in error, please contact the sender and 
>delete 
>the email from your system. If you are not the named addressee you should 
>not disseminate, distribute or copy this email. 
>For more information on Agence France-Presse, please visit our web site at 
>http://www.afp.com 
EXHIBIT E 
Sent from Samsung Mob.le 
------ Original message From: Michael Sanka 
Date:12/12/2014 12:48 (GMT-05:00) 
To: Jean Luc Brunel 
Subject: Scouting 
Jean Luc, 
How are you? 
After so many years scouting for you and having a great network of agencies all around the world who 
enjoy to work with us, i wanted to let you know that we are on the way to lose everything we build and we 
are gonna have big problem now. 
Agencies, still want to work with us but parents don't want their daughters to come to us, because when 
they google your name and the agency name the only things they see is "Sex Trafficking"!!! 
It's impossible to sign a new girl and if nothing it's done i can tell you that in 3 months we we will not get 
any new girls and i don't see how the agency will work without new faces. 
All the agencies who know you don't have any problems with you since they all told me "We know Jean 
Luc for more than 20 years and all those years we had so many girls place with him who had better 
experience than in any other agencies who were representing them as well and we never had any 
problems whatsoever, all our girls had great carriers as a model when he represented them". 
I understand those agencies because it's hard for them to talk to parents and explain that it's not the truth 
when it's all over the internet. 
You need to have it stop and have the people write an official letter to say that it's not the truth... 
I will keep you posted of course but it's really bad for us and the scouting. 
Best regards 
- 
Michael Sanka 
3104021028 
EXHIBIT F 
FOX 
r sH infq GLCv 
Ann: Scouting division MC2 
We took notes of your comments and the girls that you like on our website. 
We know Jean Luc Brunel and we always work with him since more than 10 years all 
those years and never had any problems. 
All the girls he represented from us never had any problems, they were working have 
great book work with good clients in editorial and campaigns and were well represented 
models. 
Now for all the new faces we have, we needed to talk to their parents to discuss about 
mc2 and you interest to represent their daughters and of course they google it and saw all 
the had articles about sex trafficking they were scared and I was myself speechless since 
we know that it's not true but it was hard for us to explain to the parents. 
So of course for the moment till all is clarified we can't place any new faces with you 
because the parents will refuse and it makes us look had to propose the girls to your 
agency. 
We are sorry but you really need to clarify everything, till then we will have to cease any 
collaboration and we will have to refuse to let you represent any of our models. 
Sure you understand. 
Sandra Petkanic 
Fox Fashion Agency 
Beograd 11000. Svetogorska 35 v. Stan 12 
www.foxmodetcom 
e-mail: foxaffice@sezampro.si 
EXHIBIT G 
Tel +381 11 3346414, tel +381 11 3226202 
1 Q As part of your employment with MC Square 
2 did you live in New York, for a time? 
3 A I'm sorry, but I take the Fifth. 
4 Q Have you ever heard any model of MC Square 
5 who at the time of being a minor, that means under 
6 the age of eighteen, made an accusation that 
7 
8 A Never. And that is something that I will 
9 not answer. And I said never because even when 
10 peoples come and ask me I will always say the truth 
11 regarding that. 
12 I know Mr. Brunel for the longest --
13 maybe eight years. And I always said what I know. 
14 I never saw and I never knew that he did anything. 
15 So I know that. And that's the truth. 
16 Never. I never heard anybody accusing Mr. Brunel 
17 
18 Q That means -- that means at any time no 
19 model, no minor model came to you and said, you 
20 know, "Maritza, look what just happened to me", that, 
21 
22 
23 
24 "I don't have a place to live". Or, "Look, I didn't 
25 get my ticket", or whatever. 
EXHIBIT H-1 
Jean-Luc Burnel acted inappropriate with her? 
or complaining about Mr. Brunel. Nothing. 
"something bad happened to me". 
A Maybe a model came and told me, "Maritza, 
look what happen to me. I don't have any money," or 
43 
1 a--
2 MR. OBRONT: Well, I would object, because 
3 of circumstances. 
4 BY MR. DAVID: 
5 Q But you said before that you never heard 
6 anything that would indicate that Jean-Luc Burnel 
7 behaved inappropriately with -- with any models, 
q especially any minor models that MC Square may have 
9 had. 
0 Is that correct? 
1 A Yeah, I said what is the truth. Nobody 
2 complain to me. Nobody -- your question was very 
3 clear, has any girl came to you and complain about 
4 sexually, you know, involved with Mr. Brunel. 
5 Q Right. 
6 A And my answer was no. Nobody came to tell 
7 me. I never saw. I never knew. His personal life 
8 was not my problem. 
Do you have any actual knowledge, that is 
0 to say were you present or did you see with your own 
1 eyes, any minor models go with Jean-Luc Burnel to 
2 Jeffrey Epstein's home, or any party of his? 
3 MR. OBRONT: Objection. 
4 THE WITNESS: I'm sorry, but I take the 
5 Fifth. 
EXHIBIT H-2 
COMPOSITE 
EXHIBIT I 
INI Iti. C Mi. 111 ()I RI OF THI: F II% PAM k 1 
kN1) 11)11 MIAM1-D;PF OtMu. 11.0R11)% 
S.).11.(11 1•flit:13i., 
Mixon Ilffcra.ixil 
;.r.c 101r433 
'use.: tit:at:shut t 
1 
r: L, t 
ctigre 
PLLA A(NRFEIIENI 
(T)MES NOW li.%111EININI FEWSILNDE7 S.tak Alknr, tithe I It'svner .11131.111 
.1 1 1.4 ui. lq mud Wig,* tht taldokivecl Att.LvU talg WA CIILf' tTq 1..,11...n.ent. 
akii.vmail l'IvIcalanl. I. vitt,hrn 1ie 1:14.4emla4 5hal 10141 (.."Int " b", 
gulii:t. Coupi &ui:t ts. ;l hr•pltg prpswsi nrcl tJi. tickiirispr v.i11 sc crivrce,.• 
/Pc 410 'Ear* I miltradrill% L AMA 1001111%11 nira:tori !Poo pr hatiese 
,qt', sal ‘onsilt1.(1 m.1 ^1:11111111,311 iii 1018.11.111i11110 I',. in 5.(1.,k11. III AI tritUtPuln ft,.1111:11 
1,110‘.1 eolith 
11u: 1.14.1Lia1.101 4WD k -11144: 1.:.111% toriallaaus.(1 ii1 di;I .1rtrn1Iiiil 4 
1vAlteit'l '4,01 l‘raTLIIL to Or iksliin thwart ill.; rhp40711.-M 4 S ,fic..11141, ‘.1 $25.11114.. La) 
Ickusimi hc vliwitisk• I ri 
1:1161Y.% (.. tto.- *Alin, 1111, IN- • .14.11. 
m 12 yv.ar-,i1ctlikt ...mistiness% k•out.til t irkwigt'41 t1 1ta jt,tfifliw 1% Nit es kid 
4 1r1k I)vivISC1111 earil beirmia11 If..14ak 11,61:, 1:1 4.:411. .1 :It. 
i+ pin its t rt. 
!ZP 111% •11.N0trIT/ier 111 ..11;Clii '1.11.1111 11.1ai I,rillt? 1 bruit 
,uleteIct: 
14 
thri•ki 
the tohlatir 
I kirkia Pre* 
b.\1141 K(.1141)11-
cal Id! 
EXHIBIT I 
..t11 4 mei 10.1/..' 
17L 
I 110IHX3 
=WO 4,1 
1. in ird.1 
;am 
• a r pig, A.ra.i 4 •cr wig se qo mod 
I War.. 1...• • ".• S • Or..., 
icIlLt,,)L.a A14 1,11M4.11. 
it %Ike e • ur•--..•.6 1.41 4.1111‘: ^ r.ri ,1/11 orli,v 
P.14+ 1,1 [MON El 4}7110.1 411 41631 
IaaLU  
1 irt4 I 
,JdJx 51111.111.41.. 14 
rrt -r -rtljal ri JO 40'43 ar44 aeiror Ruw-r. ilia r..L. 
rn,a. Ira, Ir. 44 
-•lat - • ! I , 
1'4 tr. '""4111.1iCi. CA 
rN f, 17141 
• 'Pt '•-o Ivy .1 it". k All 11., IY 1. II* 11 1.1..4 trir _i:•...11U LI _MIA 
r'cvu M. ippr, 1$*terf ^ itl t..,01 aro, 
. . 413. I -1• I Irg';.‘,S. S• 3.11901 M p,101, -4t 4V 
pnir,,r1 Ill eyrie....1p. 
1.3.10.14 ' I SUN ,s4p 
ti  ii .v.iitm L. 
•+-t• ...I 
- -C1'7 t7"11, 
-4,1, • .1 I r 
. SI l A.] IA.11 3_ Vir,Jr 
.t.114.0.,,K 4. _ 
4.1 ,,..A ji )2111.1141*, 
'.51,5Z4.-/Icr. ir 
1..i.e0 
40 ...Mai .14 vit-0,4/1111,1-14-r 'YJC? 
•_________ ;if 
if Ct-^ -T• NO 
• )• ) 
r 
) 
11.14114..1 2VV''' 
LnI:).„ 'IL it ii.12"cifilpt .pLa4.111 
A -4.111.2 
_r 
!CM 
poor*, A;1140741!. a4ia1 
4111; yin ti 
-.1910707—. Ja rt. i. aryl a aariliu. 
C 01%1113.4re _40 ItA-M 
r?Y)11; ‘rAIC,1 SA 
41) 
I.EJILC 
'OW I 
' *-1=` .L  
_ 
' 
NO*. kr.• t 
• 
• I ,tas 
F.si tto 
tP...1. IIII. eir +e•-• Psi 
314 1.41.1. .11,01,1t .„ . u—a• •4 . . .11. 
• p . V, • Oad. ;71rm 1 ',LTC- -1 _ 
. I sttt7.1017 .10 1-07144o •ty. Fltri• ti.1 lore -r t,•1•1 • 1 I I,- -71 :44, 
/ I Aril ....414.44 rye sem- pr.r =I., Irv+ ottLtr.tovi 
577. 7C&.,D,Z41I.t 777 1741 4 'II 44l 
4J ,14.111. 1/141.4111F tr 1,1 re.", f. T/4 .• .i i.41. • + a 
....•••• • I.O.A1F1Imi 44a4. • !II • ---71,471,111117, 1. 
• Ar• t P., 7 4..:1-1.7.tY rt. olw na,11 trtl F 
'00 &I F. t ...77171.7 14 7.1,7W V.. Los - e. 
t t 
e 1. I N 1. ciraitt'k ‘40610.-/Altile • 
4, lc !ICI... its• l#J II •. +two M. Fin. 
I I 
^ t 441.-4 At F. • ti Fla 
Nlit.ritir ire( )1 IS'.'4'_ IF.1 
S 
gra,. 
3 r • r 
.4 $ YO • , 
'DuGo I"; Vr. .411:"Atitt:15,!.•-01JrTK 
S11.11-, V. '41 • -7j .114,174t17/1 7:74-747.,7•••V!..•700V . t77 ablial71 7. 
Ark1,1111 717 1114 71,71h 1,1, ...pail 
•O.II• •111.1 
1,44i ri.1110.4. w4W+11.124•111.• • • • • otv (144•or 
•13.aiie ti +441..1.4.14 ..110•1.414II ,1 
ktai. ITI7g1t41 O1liO1144 11.1 ti 41411 
• 
i. 
. Its 4.1.41411.FI-thr.allitrtr •L 
,'1w-.4 os U,',-44., -*rpm. 
II am I, tim-fir, ok016-4P- ti, I., .''t 
L- KM. F. I "ye. .46, 
". 
or r.,4 4r, 4.a..11•11,17. -477.• 
I  4L.1-...,(s  i'irj.• • 
. , 
_ 
. .„ . 
-_________ 
r•sa t" "tr'rr, 111 y .orN•ab_. It 41 1.,Jc.rrf t... Ti 
a. LA.,. :4:Sig +AD Ft wit. ' ' • • 
I .• 
v. 
t 
p 
• .. I 
vier, r.tr'1'4> 
te " • • Li. • I f 81 
..11.77 st• ,rtv We Win SW, ry•14 rib Ftrornktit wt. 1.7e ill • • &go 471. 
We Arca•woril p• .144..,o4 4414'p I*4 fir trillo *di. if, ,MG c.ts/P...41 k 14. • 
',till 77! iIèPkI4I pU$11 4144 14, 114 4'elt.~dr, .4114oi ariz Ti uudiPA 
•1•Fr,la1"11 
• 
EXHIBIT I 
'.•• I 
" • • 
PAdi '4 CI' 4 
IS NE MOAT Mitt OF rilufilinti 
Aria PIAMI6 Vim cool! P.0411TERM.20:13 
urAllE CLORDA 
i ;LED 
;:r; 
Nrometim 
_ 
MVO titrr Aft% 4,. Litt" 
iV 
ar,"41=C-71,14.0 - WHO" tr)(11.4+...4 St4iti. 
s• .4trileal FTT Ti; 
IN THE Mkkir AND EY1W MITKTRITY Or T1X STAVEo FUYIlkibige 
KOMI Row FE RVARoll F111,4134, 1,4**Ijupr1 ti1 411 -14elicts1 
prixxxv1101Li ma STA.T. •11' thg C.yeepi, of tic° h . tiO gel trybrwisn4.1 
';'14 AliariPt 7,301 Ittkrnon-ii ai.ki Doi 
34ttocr glivviA w •:a. I 7..11, 
:1,13,0 Car r 
41., Mr_ IT'3214.17 Pia 1.,??.?10, t ummi #rc iz.zth1Et7 ss; 
f-,*0 
-r:onass.Pit• • 14 
(4V .1t1 
wort i 
NPR) T /A aft ye baNtomkr PA ct 2 t. 243,4 and June 3C 1X I n&W, tic 
• art1*I1041 4.1411)itir IltaWitit) ral *tar ar Litie :Nr. 
*Nair tit Su of -srratar.rt, fto. prIlatrry çAJ.r, SiCOELSLt t..1.0 lard vr JE441 
LUC BiltuWl, arcYlr JEft; FLILLEfil banner a' unteder, ai*Pri 
'Xi St Milt WO 11442 Di "ghee. teir ricr4r1, c;14-1.Af afilf 
OR Ft F.1X.I. LIM I,. tel JeAlk. LLIC 11114.14EL Vat, .„1.7 Fr IF ALLA al 3 flig ihe 
Ptrl'oti co Et * ThorilL I lhanottsto et le • groplate 1ta !re a ad thertitt*reg yip .1,50* 
k" lag «1 CiPt PerAz 'VA fir tilled Ihew sto, iv a 112 2t4( Iltat Sta".. 
urit4ii t 1r+1 the Mali 110 m luta evataig roda prwtlad PL1C4 
band dyrIP, nt to :4,744 Fiandts 
Li .1,1•11.00 
COU147 2 
kr: Mil Jitrimar, Aseglikit SINS Xakomev uGgW.f,ship rikirt4ti11 rags 
IMAITEAa,SQLZ.ce *4' Lemur Kiwi! trol are lam 111ffle Amp Vgig 
akwnail '31,-mfulY tielvtAli Sr0100 t*Kririo 11-.N.ol c *fret ty* 
RI 7 Dm' 3'10 bi 1:411 Er4girc, a 1011:1111C. Eratwo =2.Amm. a; ,Tmrit,c1 'oh VirgIi 
%WNW one ore Ise poi artvk it) t* ?,:ARIN, u SA, UL intim JP4141 L LI; gRasaL 
rt3 (• JEFF Fit. 1 ex race fir fraud Mel onolsrom. rf:c000lcrt, , p•orrus=1, a. oallul 
triroomirvilefillurK Ci I/ u.cidirc! the,eby algort 7-1LIe oft 
‘..1.1144ESL:Y. at multprypt .olly nr cr q_i.14-d ,-Littru Er; or mom. to) 
immie of )(ARO.LI1I UhA, !minx JEAN LUC 1:44LL ar 6:01 ieT ruLaR 
r"1il4 a ¶ FLI SIM .2 Wiwi, ID ir 
Walt 1,11-11(4ftes • *a aid aJulif.ai ancs maim trop 114,:a Ogrinv 0' 146 hl2o 01 
Patel 
STATE OF Fl ARID k.<01 NINi ll'all-081.4, 
iI'wiihsr&'iIP, ma. mut Tromaeo birocci v. tit 1.1,31t 'hp 
ark Jattall C•nitir ,se siitracri rrinal MU he Px, hr. rax-vrt 
.1;1 1'0 hiI .-111-cm 4 trcii On, 111k11111.11i31 113, tuba! It}:•01 01%* Prni 
UR, VI k• 4,1 1 nuffftit 74,1)14.elyur41 .01014+, lir); Antis: v:idagIsA; • — 
t.th.rm• itsrou uiiit1 iii hit hIII1I4LIIIII I Mar! a 
- - • 
V."( 
I 1' I 1%4'014 1.1 1111Phi .[KI) 
44, .1 1,4,, a. i et et, I 
fit;1..4.., 
.Jo 
1,40 r 
C.,111' tZV 
-• • ••• • • • • 
. . . 
.• 
• it 
) 
efatiL 
- • vr• •• I •„. 
• • .7i. 7 
Alioiet.—".‘ 
I ,r• 
i** 
II. Z et& 
71Iti) 
_ • • - 
A. cia7ii‘ K.:SRAW.C.F.A• 
t 
24.),i re". 
'ciO} 
r 
•=?`_____________ 
11.1 : ,40:7, /2 
cI **. ItcriltL4 
, 
i*f±-
ti 101.. . 
I 
54: Ar • • 
#0- 4 
1 • • 
r * 
i a I tr, Cit 
.% • • 
- • - • i‘O. • 
• cao• 
a.- ••• • •47. 
. - • 	. * 	1 	, 	_ 
' *. • 1 	ki.. t 7 ti *;:_tv , • '. 4-4,,,%, ',- !.., .... 	_itril: „:., ,,, , ,.,.. _ / 	___ 	__ 	. 
...„_,...,,Ir." :: (.........:Aiww_1., ... 	:•:. . .. 	I 
, . 	I 	1.... 	______, 
--
010/44-1# 
fLi...., f /....2, * , 1.' rt. • : ;:e..,:: t• jA^ • , .1:e I .4e ,;,.....,,, r -,—,-.  ,.: #4, 4..  le )1i  
,.. 
±#117.:1!_st•_ L ' s - p,,,-- .-yi,e'ill... ur--,t .4:. ._11., ' i'l,' , /1 i 4a.: ..:4  .... ! 4 C  
e ' •*.°' r 
1,4 t-i.. : irs) r tr r .-I,, ; r e .7 It-, .-1 I " ,.'l e 6C-.  C41:" if 
,.? it , ..-1 ., ,' , - .-- L. K..' / ; 4.• 4.. !''' 
, i,.!Itst WI .'ll'r., .4., 4- .;.1,1, .a.1.-4,1*;,..-:.1 ,.c• 
,,,,, .._ r i....". 6, . 6, t* ' c .   li) .._in '4.4. 1;0..4 ...1 t / • *4.A...-1 I i'4_ 
, 1 . . t 1 e4.4 • 
.. ..... 
i t I  .s 4 , 4- ..- 
...1.,.,44,4,4,-.1..._ • ',,, r_vit .20•44-; .4 f •e-, -_, • ' 4,-• ..,1.- 7.__________________A ;•' I  
. . ••• •• i , 
1 
• 
EXHIBIT 
COMPOSITE 
EXHIBIT J- 
VISA 
IS& tplort•••••14 col 
11,01. c:saia•tualMo•ntad.......*swim. aorar.... 
11-79711. Notice cord‘ctloo 
.`1E"11. la 1111-r. : - -  Uk 
aktM7Pat.01.1111 
ritac•It tooeit 
•••••,..1-1. rminimmr_ MIAOW 
aloax 
nopnowLnot. tt, 2Di Itte 
=44.4wviri;im yea tacartiomirertazurr altar anis 
1." •14.effilha- .011F,PIZ 3+1.4' _____________ 
uuTa 
I 4. n Igt-,x,t,ratc•ori atAtra latti.ra a 
1,01.1.vr4n(-). rt. a *Oat 
Mawat alppaa,ral-PWaL&aa 
401,M 
Vial,i4 *ram ta/alfaail. wa 0.130/2014 
Cantam&ftb.s WAara 
pe.as.k.ft G•mrm .....aawsit. ase......ftims MOm 
*'PUIIMO.... Owl. a* ...a .00.44 *0 %NO saWasella. IlimmMmia • 
Mrs. t4.1. toomoMs. votO 'Own to moo a. Vord6AMIOMM 
0....tan ...pews.. assa sae am.imalew mmaisemsaa. .......... 
tarn oat* Soy .O. owIttOlimaost, Out *maw oO Oolt.A2.0 ArrOltok 
to. nitlit .or An.....t.do .ftooti maw otakMo101oo ‹,,t 
-F. 
.. *1.41.0asemaa.. liasmma. sea awalitismar mem Clia 'WM L00 .0 .o sootily ....10.or to.novt.40 .t VSA. aaaaassi St 
asa mg .ft. weift.as ara stswa4a Is *Ns 0 0 Wes malpAtimma. % .W. OM. SO O..% OW oh.... Ow ..O..A 4.6.1.0 
MOO* IMO.. O. t100. oott,4.0, Oft..... la ammSmassme a. ass poyielms farotsaa . was.. at .... insets. wilia 
004.104/404 do.o..o..... 
t.. .00movot .t *SA. wt.. ...Leta. 44s. ara is *awake ma SIMMS &Ito... 4.4410 SOW. MOM go.toottoo %AO. illial ot.t.a 
O..ott.toco .441, ......OooOtIt O. tov.O to Oft loltotOlo Cott ottoo ow tOo Uoatod soot.. sr Xs* am 
. ..... 4.0. Wa.mas ad. .0.sams40. .t. .•.s.. 
w.,... -t ,......... a Alw 
oro. DOO 4.7040 VA... OssesSatio am 00. ono OwtO 
y.. 
to ototift On . 
OUAUMM wm ebyty psii..w. *lama  eamsaw 
M.4 *SO OS.1041 ..011.0e...0 Sia.aa 000.00.40.  
doilAirtliiiiii&fItIfii=1 is ./ ri,••••• t-• It•c• t• .••_k Vt•u vv-•11 I..abt•Ut., 012.0‘a 0.07, 0.1Z601r0•=00 1...0 
U.  
AL10.04.1 
4000) )711.•.=0,1 
,6 14.71.111.. WOM•bWW nrpr,r,r 
Lr.rtaaw.ataa .semerlasri.e, 
VUW.OWT aamvxcm culvr,r, 
111111111111111111111111111 
°WI'''. 9,, 
- 
7-1:.* aims omit am. OO. won.. akoottOtt Otto *stem -•••••••••,..• 
•••• .1•••..1, 4ffir.r ••••••• aq.11,.. far mimedimasi I. 
V.4•144w, tallItint; 
MOrT 410. 
... .00 Ott... Omw.t AMOR Otito/i... 
- 
dr! 
11,1trim Tara Al.+ lataL/00). 
SUPPORTING DOCUMEPOS  
EXHIBIT 1 Several press and media articles documenting the rise of South 
Beach as one of the United Slates' main fashion capitols. 
EXHIBIT 2 Press articles regarding the models and actresses who were both 
discovered by and careers were launched by the beneficiary. Jean 
Luc Brunei. 
EXHIBIT 3 Several articles regarding the prestigious reputation of Kann tviadets 
as formerty one of the world's leading agencies. 
EXHIBIT 4 A list of all of tiAC2's clients, including several high-profile campaigns 
featuring some of MC2's fashion models. as well as several press 
clippings regarding this prestigious and reputable modeling agency. 
EXHIBIT 5 The beneficiary's. Jean Luc Brunel. impressive curriculum vitae, 
verifying his tremendous accomplishments in both the fashion and 
modeling industries. 
EXHIBIT 6 Several articles regarding the 2004 Models New Generation Contest 
(including translations) as we as the beneficiary's leading role within 
this prestigious modeling event. 
EXHIBIT 7 Several press orlicles regarding the prestigious 2006 Models New 
Generation Competition (including franslatiansl, as well as the 
beneficiary's Jean Luc Brunel, leading role within Illt event. 
EXHIBIT 8 Letter of Claudia tviiiaolo, President of Modetwork. a renowned 
modeling agency. 
EXHIBIT 9 Letter of Alia Amonlova. Director of Faro International 
Management. 
EXHIBIT 10 Several press articles reflecting the prestige and high circuiarian rates 
of the mentioned mngazines and periodicals which have featured 
and covered the modeling events which the beneficiary. Jean Luc 
Brunel, hos Organized throughout the year. 
EXHIBIT 11 Information regarding the extremely successful and prestigious 
modeling and fashion association, International Model Taieni 
Association (IMTA), 
M C 
NIODELSMIAtvil 
July 25. 2014 
Department of Homeland Security 
United Stales Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Vermont Service Center 
30 Houghton Street 
Saint Albans. VT 05478 
RE: 1-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker 
0-1 Extraordinary Ability as an Art Director and Talent Coordinator 
Petitioner: MC2 Models Miami, U.0 
Beneficiary: Jean-Luc Didier Henri-Rene BRUNEL 
Dear Sir I Madam: 
The present fetter and its enclosures are submitted in support of the 
attached 0-1 petition of MC2 Models Miami. LIC, on behalf of Mr. Jean Luc 
Brunel. The petition is based upon Mr. Brunel's standing as an "Alien of 
Extraordinary Ability in Art Direction and Talent Coordination." Kindly note that 
Mr. Brunel currently holds 0-1 status with our organization. 
The South Florida area and Miami Beach in particular have become a 
mecca for the fashion and modeling industries. As a result many of the largest 
international modeling agencies such as Ford. Elite, and MC2 have opened 
offices in South Beach and the area has become one of the most important in 
the modeing industry In foci, Miami Beach has become second only to New 
York City in terms of employment opportunities for fashion models in the United 
States. Attached as EXHIBIT 1, please find several press and media articles 
documenting the rise of South Beach as one of the United States' main fashion 
capitals. 
In 1996. our company, MC2 (formerly Karin Models}, established an office 
in lhe heart of the historic Art Deco District of Miami Beach. "South Beach' has 
truly become one of the world's modeling capitals and we are pleased to be a 
Pcirf of il Our agency has developed a highly distinguished reputation in the 
modeling industry. We specialize in representing numerous moaels of 
infernailanal acclaim. Having discovered faces such as Christy Tixlington, and 
molded the careers of celebrities such as Sharon Stone, Estella Warren. Milo 
awe' mods maw- • 1674 Won mad • su)1e 640 • mialTh beacti I133134 
Nab 672 6300 • fa: 305 531 8330 • adminostration 305 672 7672 • fax 345 672 6332 
rric2trim 
Jovovich. Jerry Hall and Rebecca Romiin who is currently starring in the award-
winning ABC television series. Ugty Betty; MC2 models are among the most 
sought after in the industry, as evidenced by the caliber of their commercial and 
editorial bookings. Many of our fashion models have graced the pages of 
leading fashion magazines of the United States, Europe„ Latin AMeriCO. Africa. 
and Australia such as Vogue. Teen Vogue. ale. W, Glamour. V. Mane Claire. 
Surface and Cosmopolitan as well as many more throughout the world. In 
addition to our Miami Beach office. MC2 Models has offices in New York City 
and Tel Aviv. Israel. 
As Artistic Director and Talent Coordinator tot MC2 Models Miami. (IC. Mr. 
Brunet will be responsible for overseeing the artistic aspects of the agency. By 
overseeing the art department in the agency. Mr. Brunel will direct the visuar 
marketing of the models to clients. focusing on the images placed on both the 
model's composite cards and their portfolios. Both of these marketing tools are 
crucial in marketing fashion models to their appropriate catalog, editorial, or 
media clients. As Artistic Director and Talent Coordinator, Mr. Brunei will also 
,:oorciinate the pairing of fashion models with a particular photographer. Clients 
for the agency include a myriad of fashion pubfications, retail stores, consumer 
oracluct companies, and fashion houses lo name but a few. Recruitment of 
talented artistic photographers who have an exceilent understanding ot the 'ins 
and outs" of the modeling and fashion industry is cnbcal to the successful 
running of a top-modeling agency such as MC2 Models. Mr. Brunel will also 
continue with his amazing track record of discovering the world's greatest 
talents and beauties in order to sign them with MC2 Moclet.. Mr. Brunel will 
continue to travel around the works looking for new talents, and to agencies 
around the world in order to establish relationships with those agencies and 
allow MC2 Models Miami. Li.0 io represent them in the United Slates. 
Mr. Bruners impressive Qualifications as an Art Director and Talent 
Coordinator, establish eligibility as to the regulatory standards for such 
classification as a top professional in his field. Mr. Brunel meets the 0-1 criteria as 
an individual of extraordinary ability in the Arts and Entertainment field as well as 
a business entrepreneur. MC2 Models Miami. 1,1C is presently seeking a 
cophisticated art director and latent coordinator. After reviewing his experience 
and accolades, we ore confident that the beneficiary, Mr. Jean Luc Brunel, will 
perform said function with outstanding kiii and professionalism. 
J. MR, BRUNEL'S QUALIFICATIONS AS TbE RENEFICIARY 
In addition tc, Jean Luc Brunei's extensive business Qualifications, his 
-weer as art individual with artistic vision and creative talents Qualifies him as an 
0-1 alien in the Arts and Entertainment Field His all- encompassinin experience 
as art Art D'ector, Talent Coordinator. international entrepreneuo and business 
leader in the modeling, fashion, entertainment, public relations, restaurant. and 
tourism industries has made Mr. Brunel internationally renowned in Those fields. 
Among his various accomplishments throughout his career are the successful 
modeling agencies he has founded both in Europe and in the United States. For 
example. in 1978. Mr. Brunel founded and grew Karin Models Paris from the 
ground up to become a lead-market agency with a world-wide presence. 
Capturing a strong market share in Paris, Mr. Brunel successfully created Karin 
Models as a platform for marquee clients to obtain sophisticated public relations 
services and important modeling contract opportunities. Mr. BruneI's success 
was so great with Karin Paris that in the next ten years. he founded Next Model 
Management in Los Angeles. California in 1980. Next Model Management in 
Miami, Florida in 1982, Mode/ Management Group also in Miami. Florida in 1966. 
and Rebecca Commercial Casting in New York City. in 1988. The loiter one was 
opened as a talent and casting agency for performers. offering services such as 
voice-overs, television, and cinema advertising work. again. successfully carving 
out a niche by which to make his mark and achieve bold commercial 
performance results. 
Although Mr. Brunel later sold his rights to Next Management to Faith Kates 
in 1989, who partnered with Joel Wilkenfelcl a couple of years later; NEXT 
represents some of the most prestigious women and men in the fashion world 
today. Star talent includes renowned fashion models Molly Sims, Daniela 
Pesiova. Audrey Quock. Yamila Diaz. and Malgosia Bela. NEXT continues to 
maintain an influential international force in the fashion and modehng industry 
through its fully operational offices in New York. Los Angeles, Miami. Sao Paolo, 
Montreal, Landon. and Paris, as well as its affiliates in Milan and Australia. 
Because of strong revenue growih and successful business performance. 
as a result of his ariislic vision as an artistic director and talent coordinator. Mr. 
Brunel founded the very successful Karin Models of America in New York City 
and Karin Models USA in Miami Beach. Mr. Bruners commercial ventures in 
opening Karin agencies in Paris. New York. and Miami have been extremely 
successful, generating combined annual revenues of twenty five (25) milion 
dollars. Eventually, Mr. Brunel hcensed the Karin name to agencies In Israel, 
Denmark. Germany. and Spain. Mr. Bruners extraordinary talents are not only 
limited to launching successful modeling businesses. but also in discovering and 
launching the careers of some of the world's most successful models. Mr. Brunel 
has launched the extremely successful careers of supermodels such as Christy 
Turtingion. Rachel Hunter, Sharon Stone. Monica Bellucci, Estella Warren, and 
Christina Semonnovskaya. These women all proceeded to become some of the 
most photographed international cover models in the world, appearing on 
Thousands of magazine covers woirictwide and spanning many years. As a result 
of his reputation as a highly visible, strategic networker who cultivates and 
conducts business in a global environment and bookers lucrative cleats, mory 
lop players in the fashion and entertainment field requested that Mr. Brunel 
function as their exclusive agent and representative. Some of these top former 
and present professional supermociels in the fashion field include. Naomi 
Campbell. Christy Turiington. Rebecca Romijn, Mia Jovanovich, Inez Sastre, 
Melanie Thierry. and Jerry Hall. Attached as EXHIBIT 2, please find press articles 
regarding the models and actresses who were both discovered by and careers 
were launched by the beneficiary. Jean Luc Brunel. Additionally, attached as 
EXHIBIT 3, please find several articles regarding the prestigious reputation of 
Karin Models as formerly one of the world's leading agencies. 
Most recently in October 2005. and after his reign with Karin Models, Mr. 
Brunel launched the prestigious MC2 Model Management worldwide with 
offices in New York. Miami and Tel Aviv. Mr. Brunel storied the high-profile MC2 
Model Management in order to represent high fashion models in a boutique 
agency setting. MC2 Model Management is already being lauded by fashion 
insiders as "one of ihe hottest agencies in North America" as well as 
"prominently positioned to be one of the major players of the Zeros because of 
its insider relationships with the most influential photographers around." We invite 
you to visit www.m_c2rnm.cpm in order to view the high-caliber of models. MC2 
represents Some of Hs most recent successful bookings include Liu Dan'', 
exclusive contract as the face of the Fall 2007 Guess Campaign and Sammy 
Jo's cover story for Cosmopolitan Magazine. Attached as EXHIBIT 4, please find 
a list of all of MC2's clients, including several high-profile campaigns featuring 
some of MC2's fashion modes, as well as several press clippings regarding this 
prestigious and reputable modeling agency. 
Jean Luc Bruners entrepreneurial spirit is not only contained to the field of 
arts, beauty. and fashion. In 1970. as a result of his business insight, Mr. Brunel 
founded and grew Jean Luc Relations Public:we, which specialized in press and 
promotions for tour operators and restaurants in France. During his work through 
Jean Luc Relation) Public:we. Mr. Brunel represented various key clients and 
collaborated on numerous prestigious events. Some of the prestigious events 
include.. Air Tour and Daro Voyages. Jean Luc Relations Fubliaue also promoted 
and marketed La Tour D'Argent, a three-star restaurant owned by Claude Terrait 
and. "The Go-Between", a motion picture by George Losey. Other projects 
token on by Mr. Brunei through his public relations company was his work as 
product agent for Jean Claude Kitty. 1968 Winter Olympic Gold Medalist skier, to 
promote Vail. Colorado in France for tourism potential arid also directed all of 
the promotion for Finland's Ministry of Tourism. In 1975, Mn Brunel further invested 
in the Food and Hospitality market by creating and developing "El Mono 
Desnudo"- a legendary, high-end bar on the Iberian Peninsula. This bar was 
known throughout the peninsula as extremely exclusive and attracted a 
celebrity clientele that included actress, Ursula Andress, and lhe Duchess 
D'Alba. Attached as EXHIBIT S. please find the beneficiary's. Jean Luc Brunel. 
impfessive curriculum vitae. verifying his tremendous accomplishments in both 
the fashion arid modeling industries. 
II. ELIGIBILITY FOR CLASSIFICATION AS AN ALIEN OF EXTRAORDINARY ABILITY  
THE ARTS 
Under the Miscellaneous and Technical immigration and Nationality 
Amendments of 1991, petitions for classification as an Alien of Extraordinary 
Ability in the Arts must be supported by evidence of "distinction". According to 8 
CFR §214.2(o) (Mil), "distinction" means a high level of achievement in the field 
of arts as evidenced by a degree of skill and recognition substantially above 
That ordinarily encountered to the extent that a person described as prominent 
Is renowned, leading, or well-known In the fields of arts, This evidence may 
consist of proof that the alien must be recognized as being prominent in his field 
ot endeavor as demonstrated by the following according to 8 CFR 
§214.2(0)(3) (iv): 
A. Evidence that the 05en has been nominated for or has been the recipient 
of significant national or inlernational awards or prizes in the particular field such 
as an Academy Award, an Emmy, a Grammy. Of a Director's Guild Award, or 
B. At least three of the following forms of documentation: 
(1) Evidence that the alien has performed, and will perform, services as a 
lead or starring participant in productions or events, which have a 
distinguished reputation as evidenced by critical reviews, advertisements, 
publicity releases, publications contracts, or endorsements; 
(2) Evidence that the alien has achieved national or International 
recognition for achievements evidenced by critical reviews or other 
published materials by or about the Individual in major newspapers. trade 
journals, magazines, or other publications: 
(3) Evidence that the alien has performed, and will perform, In a lead, 
starring, or critical role for organizations and establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation evidenced by articles in newspapers, trade 
,journals, publications, or testimonials: 
(4) Evidence that the alien has a record of major commercial or critically 
acclaimed successes as evidenced by such Indicators as title, rating. 
standing In the field, box office receipts, motion picture or television 
ratings, and other occupational achievements reported in trade Journals, 
major newspapers, or other publication'', 
(5) Evidence that the alien has received significant recogntHon for 
achievements from organizations, critics, government agencies, or other 
recognized experts In the field in which the alters Is engaged. Such 
testimonials must be In a form, which clearly Indicates the author's 
authority, expertise, and knowledge of the alien's achievements; or 
(6) Evidence that the alien has either commanded a high salary or will 
command a high salary or other substantial remuneration for services in 
relation to others In the field, as evidenced by contracts or other reliable 
evidence; or 
C. If the criteria In paragraph (o)(3)(1v) of this section do not readily apply to 
the beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable 
evidence In order to establish the beneficiary's eligibility. 
EVIDENCE THAT THE BENEFICIARY MEETS  AT LEAST THREE Of THE PRONGS OF THE 
CRITERIA UNDER $VBSECT1ON 0  
The afg_mitng that the beneficiary satisfies is gl CPR 4214,2foX3IfirOf8)(1), 
which requires evidence that the alien has performed, and will perform, services 
as a lead or starring participant In productions or events which have a 
distinguished reputation as evidenced by critical reviews, advertisements, 
publicity releases, publication contracts, or endorsements. 
As a result of Mr. Brunei's combined expertise in fashion and tourism, he 
decided to create Latin Model Pageants, now known as Models New 
Generation- to cross promote these key industries with international business and 
investment opportunities. Mr. Brunel has promoted and judged various modeling 
contests throughout South America including modeling contests staged in 
countries such as Peru. Ecuador, Brazil, Argentina. and Chile. Conceived in 1987, 
the Latin Model of the World event was a high-end modeling and entertainment 
product that appealed to upscale international audiences. reaching nearly 400-
million television viewers worldwide. Throughout his history as a major 
infernalionai event promoter and artistic and talent co-ordinator, Mr. Brunel has 
orchestrated multi-faceted public relations. advertising and media campaigns 
that incorporated television, magazines, programs. newsletters, and promotions. 
becoming notably lucrative for various major brands as a promotional tool. Mr. 
Bruners acute knowledge of marketing and promoting skills has turned his 
various international events into highly successful artistic and business ventures 
tar various major brands Latin Model Pageants attracted major brands as 
sponsors, such as American AfrOnes, Ray-Ban, Coca-Cola, Proctor & Gamble. 
and Revlon. 
Mr. Brunei's has continued his ventures as both a promoter and panel 
judge when he founded and created the international modeling contest, 
Models New Generation !hat took place in Guayaquil, Ecuador in 2004. Mr. 
Brunei sat on a panel with three other professionals in the fashion industry and 
judged over forty-nine young women from over North and South America. Asia, 
and Europe. After len days of harsh competition, Jean Luc Brunel crowned the 
winner, Alyne Weber. a fifteen year old from Brazil, whom as a result of coming in 
lust place was awarded over three hundred thousand dollars worth of modeling 
contracts. The city of Guayaquil. Ecuador was also thrown into the international 
spotlight as the host city for the modeling contest. The Models New Generation 
was broadcasted on numerous television network channels including. Fashion 
TV, which transmits to over 202 countries throughout the globe, the entire 
Association of Television Channels in Ecuador, National Television of China, and 
Recle Globo. Brazil's largest and most popular television network. Attached as 
EXHIBIT 6, please find several articles regarding the 2004 Models New 
Generation Contest as well as the beneficiary's leading role within this 
prestigious modeling event. 
As a result of the tremendous success of the first Models New Generation 
that look place in Guayaquil. Ecuador in 2004, Mr. Brunel organized the second 
Model New Generation Contest which was held in 2006 in the Ecuadorian 
capitol of Quito. In order to select only the very best new models, several 
Preliminary. qualifying shows were held in different countries of Latin America 
including Bolivia. Panama and Peru. The final conies: was held in Quito, Ecuador 
at the historical Plaza San Francisco. Mr Brunel sot on a panel with three other 
professionals in the fashion industry and judged over forty-eight young women 
iron' twenty-eight different countries from North and South America. Asia, and 
Europe. After ten days of harsh competition, Jean Luc Brunel crowned the 
winner. Gird° Lapina, an eighteen year-old. from Latvia, whom as a result of 
coming in first place was awarded over three hundreo thousand dollars worth of 
modeling contracts. 
The city ot Quito. Ecuador was also thrown into the international spotlight 
as the host city for the modeling contest. Again. just like the immense media 
exposure given to the first Models New Generation competition of 2004, the 
2006 Models New Generation competition was broadcast on numerous 
television network channels including, Fashion TV. which transmits to over 202 
different countries throughout the globe, the entire Association of Television 
Channeh, in Ecuador, National Television of China. and Rede Globo. Brazil's 
largest and most popular tetevision network. Attached as EXHIBIT 7, please find 
several press articles regarding the prestigious 2006 Models New Generation 
Competition, as wel as the beneficiary's Jean Luc Brunel. leading role within the 
event. The 2006 Models New Generation program was broadcast in over 202 
countries throughout the world. Mr. Brunel has performed and will most definitely 
continue to perform services as a leading participant in modeling events, which 
have a distinguished reputation and wilt bring more public international light to 
MC2 Models. 
For the above-rnentinneOr.m.r1,ns,, 131uriel Satisfies INA §214.2(a)(3)tivi (B1( I ). 
The second prong that the beneficiary satisfies is 8 SJI 
fa14,2(03)fiv)fBn. which requires evidence that the alien has achieved 
national or International recognition for achievements evidenced by critical 
reviews or other pubtisned materials by or about the Indlvidvol In major 
newspapers, trade journals, magazines, or other pubecations. 
Mr. Brunel holds an international reputation as ci visible. strategic 
rietworket who is able to cultivate expert relationship management skills in cider 
to conduct business in a global environment and broker lucrative deals. Mr. 
Brunel has a long history in marketing and advertising maim fashion campaigns. 
throughout his twenty-five year career in the fashion business, Mr. Brunel has 
developed vvotidwide exclusive modeing and cosmetic campaigns. Some of 
these major cosmetic campaigi% include: Bio Therm with supermadel Etle 
McPhersor., PeAS with Rebecca Rornijn, Christian Dior with Christina 
Semonnovskaya. Margret Astor with Monica Bellucci. Chanel with Patricia Von 
Rickenheim. Angel Perfume with Thierry Mugler. and Cacharei Perfume with 
Aida BaHestia. Mr. Brunet has also developed major fashion campaigns and has 
developed campaigns and exclusive contracts with some of the waticrs top 
fashion designers such as Yves Saint Laurent. Chanel. Christian Dior. Gucci, 
Nada and Marc Jacobs Please see the enclosed letter of Claudia fvtidolo, 
President of Moctetwork, a renowned modeling agency. EXHIBIT B. 
As a talent coordinator, Mr Brunei's success can arid should also be 
measured with me 3ucce55fu1 careers the models. whose careers he launched. 
have achieved As slated above. Mr Brunel has discovered and represented 
various ruper models throughout his career. Christy Turlington. who was 
discovered by Mr. Brunel, has personified unaffected beauty- representing 
Calvin Klein's fragrances since 1987 Turtington. as well as another model 
represented by Mr Br unel. Naomi Campbell, becarnt- one of the few 
superrnocie6, who managed to make on easy transition from the haute glamor 
of th 19BO's to the relaxed simplicity of the following decade. Throughout hei 
extensive career, arid as a result of Mr. Brunet's "Fashioii- Savvy Eye", Christy 
Turiington tio graced the cover of hundreds of fashion magazines. surf*, as 
Casmopotital ,, W. vogue, Shape, Fitness, Elle. Bazaar. mcirie Claire. Harpers. 
Esquire, and even Time Magazine. Please see the enclosed letter of Alla 
Amantova, Director of Figaro International Management. EXHIBIT 9. 
In (addition. the modeling events that Mt. Brunel has been organizing 
throughout the years receive not only national, but also international attention 
and appear in multiple publications around the world. One of the most recent 
events he organized. the Models New Generation contest, which took place in 
Ecuador was publicized and transmitted by various television networks and 
appeared on multiple newspapers and magazines, among them Globo 
Television Networks in Brazil. Fashion TV which is broadcast into 202 countries 
throughout the world, El Univers°, Cows, La Razon, El Diario. El Telegrafo. 
Notinorfe, Extra. Hoy. El Gran Guayaquil El Comercio. Semana. and 8 Lideres. to 
name a few. These major publications have a large subscription rote which 
numbers in the many millions of readers. Attached as EXHIBIT 10, please find 
several press articles reflecting the prestige and high circulation rates of the 
above-mentioned magazines and periodicals which have featured and 
covered the modefing events in which the beneficiary. Jean Luc Brunel. has 
organized throughout the years. 
Hence the beneficiary satisfies NA §214.2{031(iv)(13)(2) for having 
achieved not only national but also international recognition for achievements 
in the modeling industry, by having his work published in major newspapers and 
magazines throughout the world. 
The third prong that the beneficiary satisfies is 8 CFR 4214.26,1(310001f4), 
which requires evidence that the alien has a record of major commercial or 
critically acclaimed successes as evidenced by such Indicators as title, rating, 
standing in the field, box office receipts, motion picture or television ratings, and 
other occupational achievements reported in trade journals, major newspapers, 
or other publications. 
One of the main reasons that Mr. Brunel has been able to not only survive, 
but also be extremely successful in the ever-changing world of fashion is his 
ability to identify and recruit star-quality talent, As a result of his ability to scout 
major talents, Mr. Brunel was invited to become a member in one of the fashion 
industry's most elite and important associations, the International Model Talent 
Association (hereinafter IMTA). The MIA is an international association of training 
centers for models and talent. IMTA gives aspiring models. actors, singers. and 
dancers spectacular opportunities to showcase their potential talents in front of 
too fashion and talent agents from the major markets of the international 
fashion industry. IMTA also provides its association members valuable marketing 
tips and networking events with agents and scouts from around the world. 
Several of todays up and corning actors arid models have been discovered at 
IMTA; some of these discoveries include world-renowned actors such as. Elijah 
Woods, Ashton Kutcher, Katie Holmes, Eva Longoria. Jessica Biel, and Sean 
William Scott, Attached as EXHIBIT 11, please find information regarding the 
extremely successful and prestigious modeling and fashion association, IMTA. 
Additionally, please find several pages from IMTA's official website documenting 
their discovery of the above-mentioned Mist actors and actresses, whose 
membership in IMTA proved to be the launching pad for very successful and 
highly profitable careers in the film industry. 
Furthermore, as previously mentioned. Mr. Brunei has launched the 
successful careers of many internationally renowned models, who have been 
featured and still are in many international and nalional fashion magazines. In 
addition, his commercial ventures. especially MC2 Models. formerly Karin 
Models, have been extremely successful generating combined annual revenues 
of twenty live 125) million dollars. Currently MC2 is one of the most successful and 
well-known modeling agencies in the world. Mr. Brunel is one of few people in 
the modeling business that have achieved a similar standing and have been 
able to maintain it for over twenty-five years. 
For the above-mentioned reasons, Mr. Brunel satisfies INA §2144.2(o)(3)fiv)(8)(4). 
EVIDENCE THAT THE BENEFICIARY MEETS 8 CFR B2141(01f3IfIv)fC) 
The petitioner has submitted a plethora of evidence regarding Mr. Bruners 
experience in the fashion modeling industry. Mr. Bruners has established MC2 
Models, formerly Karin Models, which is presently one of the major international 
modeling agencies. with combined annual revenues of twenty five miDion 
dollars. Only someone with Mr. Brunei's expertise and strong strive for success 
can achieve such international acclamation in the industry and been able to 
maintain his status for over twenty-five years. Mr. Brunel is the one responsible for 
the launch of numerous supermodels' careers, which hove been maintained in 
the spotlight for several years. He has worked with renowned fashion designers 
and photographers, who have trusted his work and intuition. In addition, Mr. 
Brunel has orchestrated many international and national successful fashion 
events that have received international acclamation. 
For the above-mentioned reasons, Mr. Brunel in addition to meeting at least 
three of the criteria of 8 CFR §214.2(0)(3){1v)(8). he also qualifies under 8 CFR 
§214.2(0)13)(1v)(C) 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
It is clear from the evidence that Mr. Brunel is eligible for classification as 
Lin Alien of Extraordinary Ability in An Direction and Talent Coordination based 
upon his meeting the eligibility requirements under the Immigration and 
Naturalization Act 101(a)(15)(0)(1) and 8 CFR 2)4.2(o). Mr. Brunei's successful 
career proves that he is a prominent. leading. and well-known person in the field 
of arts. Mr. Brunel's extraordinary ability in the field of arts, in which he witl 
continue to work in the United States, has been demonstrated by sustained 
national and international acclaim. Based on the foregoing, we respectfully 
request your kind consideration and favorable determination of this petition, in 
order to accord Mr. Brunel the classification as an Allen of Extraordinary AbIlity in 
Art Direction and Talent Coordination. Again, kindly hate that the beneifciary, 
Mr. Jean Luc Srunei, has held 0-i status In the past 
Wherefore, for the above-stated reasons, we respectfully request your 
favorable adjudication of the 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition submitted by MC2 
Models Miami. LLC on behalf of Mr. Brunel. If you should have any questions or 
requie any additional documentation, please do not hesitate to contact our 
office. 
Thank you very much for your kind attention regarding this matter. 
Truly Yours. 
Mien. September Os, sou" 
USW 
Vermont Semler Outer 
75 Lower Weide° Street 
Bt. Album:4Yr osen-000i 
BE 0-i Non-immignint V Maine on iwitalf al Jean We Dither 
Henri•Itene Brunel 
I write this letter in t.trong sup;x,rt of Mr. Jean LUC Bruner:, applicAton for 
A non-inunigrard Visa to this oountry. I am currently Aninalnistratorr 
Unice, In Studio Pp. I ha,,x: been asked to review the professional 
credentials of Ma Brunei, and it i5 my profest,ional opinion that Ms. Brunel 
is an Art Director and Tak-nt Coordinator of ettinerdibary ability who 
ranks among the mnIIparentage of foreign people at 'red. top oaks field. 
I have seen first-hand Mr. Jean Wes special expertise in the field. 
intbding entity. production. coordination. and art direction for shoota. 
Ur. Brunel is considered by those in our Wintry to bean extraordinary 
creative director talent, particularly for the fashion and related indostrie:i. 
In zny personal dealings with Mr. Jean Luc Brunel, I found him to he 
thoroughly professional and capable of being utilised in connection with a 
wide range of creative subject matter on any ainivinient. He has liw 
intuitive ability to provide just what's needed in connection with any 
particular cmtive process and possesses excellent artkic ossmuternent 
and operational skills that come from his years of experience. 
Many people do not understand that behind every IncOessfut ad‘ertis.ing 
campaign and fashion shoot there are creative wen and wants who are 
making sure that the business operates efficiently by coordinating different 
tasks between models, photographers, and managing avative team. I can 
honestly say that Mr. Brunei continually prom, himself as an 
extraordinary talent its his field, 
offer an unmitigated endorsement for Mr. Jean the Brtinet regarding his. 
dart application asi a person of extraordinary ability. Th'pre is no doubt in 
my mind that his popularity and ability in the field will only =time to 
prç,per in pears to come 
, ! f.m! 
Ivry. t . 
:441, 744 ra sasmeast tt•Ps 
41116/14 
%MOM fbrevtai Color 
/Siemer Weider. Ittreet 
Si Album '17 0.5474-4101.) t 
SKI 0.1 filossemooswoot Viso Vrtitoso ' of Agar - ilirisreeo 
Disr Ow or Maims 
I *Wit doe trtlirr 41$ straw aupport of Idr Jean L...c Briariefe tappitcaiwn rpm a r-zo 
11111110Witit visa ft MA OPUtlir; oft cefiretly uurkiraz as an Awrot is TwO Malillipaben1 
We &gees Based mph my eisiriang is thir fieki of ti:o litsituovat tedueise *ea frequently 
Cad to tirdieein tiw ontotrustiolo of r>thfir i...nnftwgctiati m $hp fedd I have born *Ord 10 
MOW fiiit protest:tom! ciredeestiahi of Mr. sky:,,r, Luc ersoet It be y prokoluGnitS optnirn, 
lootd upon toy petwof and prolenotootolI linooloollse of *. amulet* udentri, that Vir. 
Wood re en oft director of ceirrievainary Who* who ranks among tht. ormeil rarceltimp of 
keeign ptrAteitatugeatwore top alma that 
I Wel* atom Joao Lu nuid and aser4 a pkaisinive Iowa with IWO a teibraiard 
perms_ ithadmi biy the Pugh !walk IllaterSIM et :ht comperises with *twit he reiguirf% 
• thearb S am wail the cvnl; oar who *wettable his Woo, Hi* rttotirlst!furty appc4ied 
an my tit die' weld* most pup4itpublicetione. eriacheig Ikterony uaierre er adounes 
• perttriiiikit foamy, kir Ms work in to V•tirn, oderrheirg arid rd'109a1 world his 
medsikothoes Sc soktai stools. ouch oh itkiteld IOWA. 011014. Moe' New lietvrid 
MN • ignition as gm itt the loadma hist Whom an doectors sores* IV-day. Jew im-
am* Is the vonstmemnotit prolomoonal vitykrt at row to tho 571 01 bathos ond hot wart as 
learitharni frieirittes twat elite oiesistraire A tree who lir in cutturittei TO MO 
elitellellats of Ow dant on rnecy eccoserti fkitiexilh Mt *wet i-m-yrrtiowle thy heihrei 
thoormotthos for has wit. lie to weft worth the met 
Mr.Jtoet Lair Snow a UNistillattsultoty at COM- Ina enerv.. 
moortsoriatiol isalaaverawral strict eckeoeigidirrurt-ri Should you hew ow ILrlitv,ril 
Mr buss!. mUwdasw abslfl. &nee foci belt to comae too 
Moak sou lor yr otterttiosi aria rortsederstoss. 
OREOKADEILIITUDIOS 
oroyarmatmer Ltd tow 1111.0 peoli tritiii gala 
tfilt0111121001111111111011.tain 
bø b1 som 
418011 
%mid bola Casa 
2$ tom Weldesiltiett 
Ahem Vf 064Po -cool 
BD O11420-kaasigesat Visa Fabian on Mullet Joan Lac Brand 
Door& at Itadsav 
letttr im writtext to support the vim a-WIT-maim ofJcan Lac &mei .0 that he may be accorded 0-i 
inctraortEnary thfly101111 tai= Iaoatitinuc to erpaod ;am his already cruatanAiles maws in the 
warichyklit fashion fidnan). I an the hodaction Manager at Ong Kids] Wok* and brig witted 
vetth attth climbs as vogue' refthat. Nurnin), hatertarito, Yam GdfaIwit, IrtSrgfri and Allure 
Atm Lac Brun& hie bsonnis inervatittgly well imam tit ow ISM as taatrlibedIe Iyho we' Web 
manor raid direct Lathilxi trod& for clients, phottgraphers, ate. Mt. Jenn asc Elmo} aimh mined 
ere to mixt th 11Xlid appzopriatz models to be Used in an axivetrritaus Calapagit, awl stersecroeney has 
the otitatandkg ability in manage at stages ci thr- eteripirar wean of prodischrts tbe right model fm a 
job_ Themfore, the quality n(bl wIt14 is II-Till:Able es lie is able to IthermoCt beaudioul Mad& As a 
mak he fag becoming one of th,7. pi:kelt:amain cif choice bathe lambkin sod other CtlIltife 
i =hart:ries. 
Is my opinkin, Nes Lax Mast is eensty an indhitILIS3 of tatimordinary abiliV in the BM of am and 
the warilian he will irteurne La the United States cleamiy requites an. indiAridual r x1raordina.-7 abdity tn 
this tut& )ix, Brunel has %en homistialudiir hsicsra mad recogrited for' his larkftle Wait sad 
esportise.t rfloanis be tines repdady *mann* tietb. rnoet rtestisbus faehinn uMkfr roubd 
des worW nth lb nit Magaritir Glenicipoitfun, Nantabsta. Wt. Bruntre amtriimatiaws to 
major cIin htive sexured hoz a pm-Iliac as ens uf the lesikug dirsobars And tam coordimidars 
working tad* it is tirm my opinu-all that tbie zesprgirietris and Aut:irs of an internal:ins:31 it cErcetztr, 
vrbo entiabeiratee with tilt mot distingualied truigazents and attkr.-Vairtg isiLesica, loquire an tnanrici.m) 
afardy aff ability and aeocurrpl:shnteeits in tri Mr, Jess Lis Thritr,c1, 
risatiaind an 04 "bats mortis the Vilna &ate% dais lac bond Ina nu* brim hia pberiamansi 
talent Araeritsa =rim& 
Flan do mat bums to admit ape WO My gamma& 
amente. 
- 
Faxing** Know 
montage 
wit ST P 11111. sit J:‘. 
11. •I.ik11 Ø.45S6( 
VICO 
Vermont Service Ciotti 
n Lower Walden Strain 
Albans, VT 064N-0001 
REI 0-iiion-immignsu Visa Petition on belied? of Jests Luc Bros* 
Dm Mem Madam 
-
Sty name is Nadia Coma sad I am President of Wenger Ntreieh.l I bow 
30 YVarS assporience sod lam CuihrWIt t. ia contact with profiesiorials all 
over do world. A few al my clients in, Niir Elie klagszioe, MI110111. 
Mow* !aura 3tiap. ugil. v'k.. The Eta, Stsrm. , sod so OIL Aim 4116, I 
am qualified to comment on Mr. JIM law Brunei's caner as an of 
direetor of ectracedinisr- ability 
It is Dot only became of his &demotions or We impenritio body Of work 
that fashion sdisstisisig sod publishing executives mold the world 
I..a . choestie O M hm . Brunel's great talent lot their renowned aCCOM Mr. 
4lion Luc Brawl is idea an pi300411t0 Imen at furnishing bit chest with 
tautly dui image of their dram. My perwr.al appreciation of Mr. : ruse! 
who is saw for ow to r-rJrvrwl his acciarriatians. F'rurn my 
sgeridtgailte they are certainly !sell coofirmsd. Accordinciv, Mr Brund bill 
a position to conanrad sizable conipanastion for his wars as comperes to 
obits in the Winos 
M. inuesrs minas:Fa as a tartaidabie artist with a personable demeanor 
precede, him tia is ositstantly ressarchiannO dirreloping stimuistingly 
now commis for his clients and I bine mine to rily on end tnot Mtn and 
his ability. OM the tt.n.:rbv. ha celebrated career. Jraft Lar Brullel 
diginguished himself es oar of SE leading fashion an director in the 
industry. 
Kt AIM Lae ilinasi enjoys an extraordias Ft. IlltatiOnSteiri to the acittstw, 
This gadfly manifests Itself through the besutiful work hr createN. Wee 
Id* time. Therefore. Jan We Brunei la dauy ens f tiw MOO tabard 
professionals working is the worki today I look forward to seeing rn.,re' of 
his work in the future. 
Sintaisty'goara, 
4/64tee-C-t.." 
Nadia '.sotfrys 
111111111111/0 
N( 114 1 );; I1 )1\11 
leptembet 17. 2014 
USCIR 
Vow* Sono, Coles 
73 Lower Walden elms 
AllAnikeVr 0947114X101 
RE- 0.1 titten.inursgrani ,a.a Patton on being of Alan Luc (Mod 
Omer tieovMsir 
1 would Mei* Wend req tifil end unqualified support for the OXIMONlinelY gtatV 04 Wes 
POW INAMIted b tAz Jaen LW ate* ea the Oen* reknit Produces fee 
tiortalrorn, I ent quailed to ley that M. Jean Leo Dural It 01 art ditoint ocl Want 
feted11.21 of the highest caber whose Wyk* emotional end creed* *ice how 
NNW tots fav no hie prafeeelen 
Ilmoughote Mt Man ILuc emigre detinguilluei career, he hoe recov, ad a lughti 
ininnsolvo let of woresstangs POWS end 10ch1evonantli Ni grilk Pelt WO WM riff 
efamill ties atm kid beautiful citadels that haw appearod ins bat =tanned oraffir.ls in 
seeta efts nod enthont publicatkina in the Iti. v4110 saves as a tounant ha 
WNW 
I ant e awoke' wens* to the ezaaiwo and operational skits of many cmvo wean" 
puck loniuding art direness and Want coonlInelora, ft la Virsloni irg plenum so 
risoogolvs Ternentable talon sect achievements of Mr. Jeer Lug lir uml. Hs OVUM 
ito etal lave I* Amp* mai* from the meet cared" deveiopod creatconcepts and 
idea I Is hie very unique ability to COMIrruicalsk, via award anal**. WM intended 
altiee hump of his chants, II is ober that Pk demi LW erlitid*I*41011C1 far beyond 
evii swami levels lor SUS inetistly by S Wunrili15 Mt% loth lahtili 11* Voprit 
considanel. Indeed he has worxedsiSi sone of 111710 beit4UVAVII ATM, %Wrt o 
house.. end eisquinee vt wade; is tr. maw tio.obt met 1 polo 1071 the c'erika 
111a vvey bad Is fda prolgastan 
1 am 0311fillindy int* Outi tk. Ash Luc ewers repidellon ties a‘chinvsit ingsmeganei 
staink. tie hss reached a level vitiate toasty leaders me descidet hill, as a 
Ain Lie Swat's voreanidhwy weer Is at a pert vete dues Is ne taming bee* 
filncoalp. 
Uri Widow 
Solar Tow Pixitraer 
141realtors 
I. 1.11111111 
, S hi. oil, VsS 1113 
Recommendation Lmter 
22/09/ 
USCIS 
Vermont Sew= Center 
75 Lower WeIdea Street 
St. /dhows. VT 05479-0001 
RE: 0-1 Non-immigrant Visa Petition on behalf of Jean Luc Brunel 
Dear Sir or Madam: 
It is an extreme pleasure to write a letter of recommendation for Mr. Jean 
Luc Brunel. I provide this recommendation based on my knowledgr and 
experience in the field of modling, due to my established reputation and 
work in the field as the Vladimir Yudashkin, director of I Mother Agency. 
Kiev. Ukraine 
I have known Jean Luc Brunel pmfeanongilly for 5everr4 years thmugh 
our wink together and, in my opinion, he is an ext*mely talented 
Individual with superb profettsional reputation. He is an !extraordinarily 
able coordinator who strives for and attains a level of merit in his wnrk 
that only a few of his contemporaries meet. He has the abilit3. to 
recognize the creative vision of his client within the time and budget 
through hbi careful and thoughtful choice, of model casting combined 
imktig his meticulous ability in the field. Jean Luc Brunel is a true find to 
our indusuy. 
Mere are plenty of or, directors out there, but none with: the depth and 
quality that Mr. Dninel possesses He is unlike anyone in this industry. 
sod I expect to see him continue to find great models in his successful 
career. Someone overflowing with talent as Jean Luc Brine] should be 
given every opportunity to work in the United States, where he will have 
the proper venues to showcase his extraordinary talents. 
Please do not hesitate tv contact me should you he :any questions 
regarding Ohs matter. Thank you for ynur time and:r6nsideration. 
'A. 
Sincerely, 
Vladimir Yudash 
FIG010 
141411 gigtifige Otriltiog 4*1141" 
IIIPM111".411111604. ....I+ r 
uotrvuak 160/44111PA *Ivo 
44 4110.111t*SitS1Kok .4 its 
• -- • ',V. , 
Department Of Hatitinirld Sinai* 
Unitid Stitt** C1Mzmship aid ttroniergition Simon 
Vonracoll Service C*01iir 
30 Illogglice Stritit 
Sant Abone. vr 1X5470 
Ilhombor 011171/41,11 
ION IT. SHA 
04 rafteartlffrory Ability as an AO Dinectat and VOW Cocsidistatol 
iscwilue MOW ifemd.ltimit mow 
'1;0.1Stil Inirt 4111C,:cr t-.1,ip trk s -Ts 
á%rNriptior riTtiflorl•f;t -•"*-tf-s1L-la-  
141 i.s-es," '••••Or, ; cro:ttitLffeli IA0'1** 
Cate., thematic** IW‘t i.fregIt'''' ;1, / *x1rwe I* tli.viet 'e43, 3 
rearelinfol votious tit, /VICK* s t ° „Tn.** OiStit j1/4;r1, qlj 
by We Grum. has partariffael -gol'acloa Disa. ',4r '.41411'tIrsg 7;01- A,T) 
1967. TE4ringtor2 bvil 41 or -41.i :f 111001, 'atCYCItor,•00 t 'VT r Tr.,) -y4,0 
ori* e Phe tow supenroa& - snonagoi -',417`i. ir-rfi'vVr‘ 
"7., the r tric, tr4. left 
.V411 el'. a slinco.." Cr mi. till' IV II S- " 4 d •_*" I tt',4 
1.1,....rorrlcs or inzt.sorl rrogizr,r4:: Pii)+ 
Wire Core. Parole? 1. t.7.1..el-e 741-.3 ewe, 
Mt &unto tus • • ,a+ 1/4.4"1"11,E- e Netelt1 v.4)--fn 
#iuriter. FA,',-r..Ifer) Slane. '-•,*t AstAucx.:1 sSi VS1.1*r#14.', ;.-=-'`'S Ihro:et-rrc, aie 
warner 04 1rOCe00014 11_ ',TOrnSIP J= Aw.t"ahltelso1P.: erY3010% 
sipie .1*Ipiletcr 2.222 -t. • - A .AdiAiN.Z.4*rp1*t.,); it II': r-car, 
pew 1.0 .t: : • „Tit ..tv 1,4 i• yirk7, IA" TA' ;,7+e'S 4-70 
Vkittiete;$ 0'40100r- - t 4-.4,7 14 .b.':1!Pt.t MO e,1.111 Oa, 
_ont4;1 :I ; .I OS g‘Weil Jsi‘i,,  
PeCereelr 
4 r 13.1 TiOr* er t ^,,;kioot, Jet3I coorconc:;1-$; 
Lents -yd try-, ,..1.1-Nryt+ *Lel- -vor •;1 Meter U, ihe  
*me —.7,4_01117 
Admi 
MODELWEIK 
„IONA. It 14 faiklbil 
`. (I P liv! 
rii: 11 V% • 1-40-40-14L--
HrbxgBJLy. 2011 
DePartment of Homeland Security 
United Stales Cibzeriship and IrrmigRrion Services 
Vermont Service Cer 
30 ri,c•Jghtor Screer 
AlbOnS. sir 05478 
Re: 0-1 Extraordinary At.iily OS Om Ar- Dircc 4 Or and "alert CQ,crchnotcr 
behdf of Jear-Li.c Didier .4enn-Renc Brunei 
To Whom rt 
AS 0 President .7f Niv_;.c-crk. Mil) *Her submitted in support at rAC2 
MOdets Miami, _LC or behalf or Mr Jean Luc Brunel -o work as a* Art 
Director and gaient Cpowatinotc,. 
M. &tonal okj jii irtVrTatiOr rc.LIpiftl1i0M, as 0 w;ibio, shategit 
networker who "-k able -o cultivate expert relationshio management sk tf.s 
order to conducy tautness in a global ervirorwreng and &inter tucrarive 
deals. Mr. Brunel nas a long nit2r,, marketrig and adiertic;ng craw 
fashion campaigns. Inrougtio-it INT twenftf-tive year coreertinn trie fair vi 
business. Mr. Brune' has developed worcide. exc.usive odelircj 
COIMOliC campaigns. Some of 1-pese 'rtaior cowneTic campo'cn$ 
60 Therm iNitrl sugierrnader toe A..i..-,wrierw.n. t'HA5 VAM kebecca 11017,17-.. 
CNIStiOri 0101 g'ith Christina Ser........ftrwi(a.?a xitr.Tet Asia! with Mora 
Belucci, Chanel wylti oirk i VcIf. Ar;., Perf.yjcie 
mugoor. and CoUc Pertune - P4116010 . s has 
developed rnaior fashiar, -L:rn-,..)trT3r onct rIfiS Oe., r.pecl cOrnpaigrti Ird:1 
elitChnitle cc -mac is r5i the wø tap'5 deSiOr+E.,5 t• 4-h in% 
Yves Sole aufent. Ctv Chro-4 Dior. GL:c: 
JOCOlu. 
In addilion to Mr. Jean Luc brunel cecensive business 
career os an 4f1CitvAUCli with artistic vision ono crealpve to 
turn find top fashion models to remesent ir tho United Slat 
Shmde yap have any questor °boy' tioli ;ear BfL 
tee tree to corlact rr-c, 
4-1 s 
iy4` 
rq ci It 
Prukffl 
100 
Modehidert. MotiLaiattenlin t 
a. •Inc; M arc 
atitiaatinnc, iii 
rits has helped 
MC3011 L Pr" OP • 
DOWITOknl Of Mamba= SOCurlPy 
United States Olitenerip and lierricration Sertioes 
VernOnfService Can* 
4ouoni0n Street 
Saint Atm% Sef OSSIS 
Re; 0-1 bdroordinary Mils as an NI Dec) and Tasont Coolrinatof on 
behalf ar lean•Iluc Dicsev Iriend.Rene Brunel 
vinlam maw Concern: 
As a Proildent of Natalie Model Management. The letter is t..orritteci in 
surrOart of han models mharTt C. on behalf of Mi. Joon Lt.ic MAW tiC 
work as an kr Director and IOW Coordnufou 
Stuns( hoot on interno"onot reputaflon 01 via*. silrotegiC 
rsenvalter solo Is We to culfkalle expert retallaswiip rnanapernent sials 
alderto candUct business in a global soviarvneni and broker liJaarrest 
deals. hir. Brunet has a tong history in rnartotft and adveers,r9 fricVcc 
carossceons Throughouttik inienly-ave yew career in .the fashion 
bsilianO14, Mr. &Wei has devolopod worilwida. 110C4filve.:Zilireg end 
covnetic compotes. Sarre 01i these molar =Work rr Includs4 
Rio Them w4Wt supentiodel Ele mcfnerscr_ Pi4AS nth Rebeoco Ron*. 
Ovidian olor %Intl Civisfina SOITXXvIOOkato. Marcel Airor welt] Monica 
kW* Civonel Min PaillititlVanhiletenheke. An Peffunlewith Merl 
Mogkze. and Cacharei Perfume vtith Aldo Bollestia.Mr. Wel hat also 
artrelaped magi, fashion campaigns and not developed campaigns and 
iseciudve Catteocis wilt) some of the *NOW, fOO kehiart (*honors PJCh 05 
Yves Sarni tautest. Chanel. Chtistion Dior Gucci, Prada. ;and 'AOC 
.00:001. 
.3R9Prit1r2, WAIN a' wourtgaroa -4% .:J/1 133riav 11011 
Iltr Ert Pi 1 Jti. • 1 lJ J41,11111, pasta nadriallitapplaalr. 
fleg "‘it- PARLIQ5 uxis PSOAIVII -WO •J'APJ XIDG 810 
es Walton to M. Jtar. Luc lituner's extensive &Anew wul kaftam. 
Meet as on individt.id with °diet AMA and creative latent hat helped 
hirn 11nd to models '12 woment in the tinied Slates. 
MOW yeu have any quesions about , *on Luc bunsl luatriiccitions 
teal free to contact me. 
SirtrAtitv. 
Erik Melsons 
Mem. September re. 2014 
USW 
vermoot Service Cente,,r 
75 Lower welder, street 
St. Albans, Vr osetkosetot 
RE 0-a Non-immigrant Mae Prtitloo on Wolf of Jean Lac Didier 
Henri-Ilene Brunel 
I write this letter in strong support of Mr. Ann Lae Droners applieaton for 
non-immigrant Visa to this country. I VII currently iiiitittilnIstraitore 
Unica in Studio It. I have been asked to review the prufeqz,lonal 
credential; of Ma Brunel, and it is my professional opiniori that Ma Brunet 
is an Mt Director and Talent Coordinator of eltreOrdinary ability who 
ranks among the small percentage of !amigo people at yeti top of his field. 
I have gnu first-hand Mr. Jean Lue's special exper;ise in the 
including casting. production, comdinatinn, and art direction for &Gott 
Mr. Brunel is ecnsidered by those its our industry to helan extraordinary 
creative director talent, particularly for the (add= and related 
In my personal dealings with Mr. Jean toe Brunel, I found him to be 
thoroughly pmfe.ssional aid capable of being utilised in connection with. 
wide range of crestive .aibietl matter on any itailatin$erit. He has the 
intuitive ability to provide just what's needed In esortTection with any 
particular creative prom-,3 and possees excellent tic management 
and operational skills that toner from bis years of experience_ 
Many people do riot understand that behind MT, sneressful advertising 
campaign and fashion shoot there me emative men and women who ate 
making sure that the bvsmess operates efficiently by *Do tdi n 3ti ng different 
tasks between models. photographers. and managing croative teams. I can 
honestly say that Mr. Brunel oanlinclaly Roves, himself as an 
extraordinary Went in hi., field. 
I offer an unmitigated endorsement for Mr. JIMA Luc Brimel regarding his 
Visa application as a ixtoon of extraordinary ability. Th'ere is no doubt in 
my mind that Ma popularity and ability in the field will aid, continue to 
p per In .ielrs to come 
reb'' L. !.! 
ler . 1.1 :" 5115 
gi lib/ le 
IJ5C18 
Venni:int *mai Cantu 
7$ Lower Welders Street 
sie. Mows, VT 054'79-000i 
RIL 0.1 NOrloalseriagreast Vise Prhtaisrs bet-os!: tit Joan 
Oeir the ere adorn 
I wee due tilt" se sums support at Ur Aeon Lie Brunets 4tiplickrion So a non 
latie leatioeri am ceirrints *larking en an Aisait eit Tutu Mtinegime-i, ii 
lein Angeles. awn epee may ottioduigI the OM f tlx) Wham Im1us1r I ati% rreqn:h 
01114 einkeilif* the ciodaratida of olhor mlrettccual4 m the Wel I furl hem asked ea 
Mg** die psmamJ aredeatede at Mr uteAn l niest It is es, prettattstiol optrliL u. 
tiegief van iny pateenei atpiabillanet linaeriethleof We lir,Inete taterm. thin 
WWII **Man director of ractreordanatry abate who ranks einem the prata41 pierettlem at 
keetin ottitaioionW3 at Ten top of be field. 
VIII* admire Joan 'tat elnend and 'and vo a rioasumr * war:. terai tkrio a tairtaad 
pittann. Judatrig b, the high great Inliterlin of the taelperates with s.h.411 he rtaguial: 
soda. demety I ow not the gully WO into apporiatica his tallow Hia irxhusi sow ell 
in ow at the iletiego Most putiatif pubficationa reaching litotarly asillians 3i adiatteis tie 
Ii pI*IICII*ttj binentO for Ms rat ot advvrrnall-4 and rd,iixleti went Nor 
cantilinittrin hope diem, siitis asWein Intin, 0004 Christian Dii+ haw orcund 
hint yoliticei as one of the issiting, 11*-Alt Wanton an dervictora *aria* vid3y. Jean Ler 
Brunet is the consuatunate geldnagoata Iwo it tomes to the an at Illabion and hie walk a 
aeon ttlec4ayeal U. emits towns Mei esearierics A true wise, be as alistoritteal Co the 
lealliaattaors of est ebnIni an ow," *ovation. ditheatih Mr Oramai cummunt.is the bobtail 
10X110$31163M for ligia Midi. be a fl vetegb the tweet 
Ur Jan LW MUM IngturAwmitity an .nitIvIduAl of eatroardsnan nem,, 
iatoratatiorsd anittawvenent and ogitmewiledispient. !ma how soy giaesiitegeas tripluktule 
tk bun& e entireeetinen abtarv, oteaa* feel bet to tortUttt me 
Thsakgew fat row ititinailye Min consmittanon. 
GREORADELSTUDIOS 
im**041 r neer rook MVP remits wri 
10.411110010Manignot•No 
9Nobitobir ib, sos4 
MIS 
Voramit8WIdee Omar 
110.01,40%biletteit 
IL Alba" Vt 0$09400 
BI: Diliasimeatreestvhis helm am Wallet Joe Um Muni 
Doak te Madam 
?MA WW1' whey to se--ppurt the is applitmloo of Jezo tAx Ortabd so that he maiy ba =lorded 0-1 
eittradimity obi* *kw otovs to o:Intinue taexpaiad vim los alritady mammals& moot fie tbe 
wcetdidde ttahtes indostrj. I ari tbo Ptothavtion Manager at Gm ;Wel Sirtodlos, its1 wand 
ifititiltaCkaitato ILS VOvitle Raga, MIMArti, hthoureto. Vogue Chronvoi, irStigrei atzl Alum 
Jaen i410 *mei Iwo booms tocivos mil, mil dem in Our fielf at 601011011 .4110 %IS Irtfalilht, 
=rasa arml dfrect kaki= models fir clients, phottgriphoms, sit M. host Luc Smog hot o tilde ed 
el* to aelixt the moat appropriex models to be urriccl. T1-aA athsatikeing eamytalsp, maul aditerruemfly haa 
the nutria:adios akility to manage all stages of the compirrz ;:ittoreas of product:1i the Tit moda frIr 2 
job. Thergfora, guar): otr bkv vs irt 
mik erottible as tic la We o btsetill I mash, Ma 
mat he hhot betemoing one of the profestictruils of choice for the fashion m4iy aact atketcream.* 
athaetri re. 
rn iny opie Joke Leer Band. is emotya hotilvithol el itStriardloary uhili‘ in the fled of art, sod 
tbs pamitiela be will anaume in the Ward States dearly =gums am ilaclividuaI oi extrzaariEllgrf ilbraity tn 
tiilLSea Mt rumel tin Imo inoozotimodly ham Mid iseognized foc; his tudque tab* lad 
esperdoe. the malelp lis findo neduir wane bk the mot prookkee, hzhion publicati,os amubd 
*ti worI4 melt to Sao Mworisot, Clasompoltion, Mario, Needuttas bit 114-14era eretribetioon to 
ata)or dieult iiorye secured km a positioo ow of So leadiog dreftotshdUnit econSzeocrsi 
weeithig today, ft is aho minim that the reapontataities anti digitsM&n inteMiltintill art &Tartar, 
-orb° colithumes with the met dietiAgakchett magnum* and siimadoi &obi, rewire an sndivid.tal 
af estraordiaali Ability and tOffiRvethntiovis aorit /0 Mr. Jeep LUC BMA 
Iltrooted 0-veboi to *ark it the United eltaiea. Jam Lag Bound grill moo* bring him pbee 
Was tborAzoodoui nutria_ 
Mous do not Wade to =we swy poosttors 
montage 
um= Lk :Kul,: rimb* ti.. 1. 4, Niale 
%mot Bewley Centel 
75 Lower Walden Street 
Sr. 4)baaa VT ofieakcpoot 
0-1 biondtranignmt Vise Petition co hdialf ethers We Emil 
Mot Mr Of Madam: 
Sly roam is, Nadia Ceram end I am Ploadeint of Montage Mrxicis.1 I haw 
3o years of cAperienc* and I am con itantty to coma vvith professionals all 
CIVier the mrld. A few ok my Clients irwlufir Elie Magazine, :A MOWN 
Ramos, Laura Shop. Oglivii`s.71w ila; Store' —and sti on. A6 Audi, I 
am tpialified to ammo on Mr. Jean Lc Brunei's weer as 1St 
director of tnrtraaedioset, ebditl 
Itissenemly because of his act lunation' or his hopeomioe WO; af work 
that babies **earthing mid publishing szecutiess mound the: world 
damns to abbe Mr. Brinier, greet Wan for their lesluvrileti accanrits. Mr. 
Jeen Log Brunel is also an absolute apart et Webbing his chaps with 
e: wily the image of their deals*. My ptirtonutl appreciation of Ur. Brunel 
mem fe meg foe or to compn-hend his acclamations. Proien my 
they MITT certainly well conibund Meardiewiy, Mr Brunel le In 
to connared liaatsie compennetion for hie WO rk es compares to 
in the buslacee 
Itr. *ir! reputatIon ala fonnidable ;nibs: with a perstxtabla deaior 
precedes him. He in constantly researriting end developing stintu tingly 
rw alaSipti for his disco sad I h4we come to My on and trustMm and 
his ability. Ow the coarse of his celebrated meet. Jean Luc Brunel lhaa 
ablinguidted himself as tor of the Wats tednon art dixeetorsi in the 
inanery. 
Mt. hut Lot Snail er,Juys soexbaordioar, relationship to the 
This quality resoliesb itseN *mash the bamatifid work ar ereittets, time 
afttx Woe. Therefore, Joao bat Sruad is dimly otse of thr most talented 
peafestiaanis working in the world today. I look forward to meek* vorr of 
ILiaw the future. 
glinenteb• own, 
Media Como' 
11111111111111, 
NORDS1'1?()M 
Ssatember 17. 2014 
MSC* 
Vermont Salvias Cedar 
78 Loavatildilden Mist 
Una"VT03479-0001 
SE; 061 Itonminagrant Val Annan an Whit of loan UM &Una 
OM Sir it Madam 
tumid gm IQ *Mid mri NA and tirigusalled supped for the adrasidinaly *bay Gil visa 
Podflort itidneid 11,V Ms, Joan Lua Wand Am the UM? NOM Piadister &iv 
$ocdWom I am uwidnord to say the Mt AMP Luc finaid is an art *edits( and talent 
scsadinailar at P4 highsv Whose Isclintain excalionce and creation vista have 
Wald hall tit the lap ri his peolassion. 
Thropohnia Mr .liam L une* dei5nguisihed resi, he n riicolvoti a high17 
hiptiklahlel id al ainfessiono‘ WW1 nr4 ediwriremeni* i Pie Peg tOw YeiniPh 
Braid Us *tot, Ind beautiful modals that haw appeared Ins list accfittir,en projects in 
Mina at Ile oast tenkvaid publications in the wtd, which swats as a tommunt to ids 
I arta aoratieni ninon ba the amine and aperalianal skits of iftley C171ankiV dnecbori 
people, imbibe an diactirs and talent catatilnassta. It is Shirsdora tiv piestais se 
micalantwe tha nensaliabis %dant and adVavarrisots of Mr. Joan Luc HT WWI 1, Kt 1111•40011 
fiGhierkae the slitanaest wails Mate the teed cared*, dwireioped creative -concepts aril 
MN* 111 is his *rely unique abilityto eennuriCele„ me lareiii analysis, the intended 
=eft onSids90 of he onsets. Si. obier that M. Jim Luc ening* teicastoo fly onYclId 
the swags Mods trx this Industry by it* slum** MOM VIM wt& Ns work 
consiciered Initssd, no hill IVOrkta 110010 Of me bootiutorm wows Won 
11011.01L Sad insgatinse In es wand it is wIllitaA a doubt thst I blisos an Op the -Ro& ce 
fat way bat in his prolasstin 
I an tallfidaltily Mit* that Mr. Assn Luc Owner's %lavish:in nu unwed inisinalkend 
*dirs. iirt his reactod s level where industry Indere now describe hilit as a "star. 
glawi tun aruners areVaordiruity arm it it a pooisA oPierteilleiret Nina timing tea-
Liza MaelOW 
Senior Toiled Pradister 
nornornns 
%it silkl fluo 
Recommendation Leiter 
22/09114 
USCIS 
Vermont Service Center 
73 Lower VieMen Street 
St. ,Albtoss. VT 05479-0001 
RH. 0-1 Non-immigrant Visa Petition on behalf of Jean 1.1w Brunel 
Dear Sir or Madam: 
It is an extreme pleasure to write a letter of recommendation for Mr. Jean 
Luc Brim'. I provide this recommendation based on my knowledge and 
experience in the field of modeling, due to my established reputation and 
work In the field as the Vladimir leurtashkir, director of I Mother Agency. 
Kiev. Ukraine 
I have known Jean Luc Brunel profelmonally for several, years through 
cur work together and, an my opinion, he is an extr,inely talented 
Individual with superb proiesstonal reputation. Hi s an :extraordinarily 
able coordinator who strives for and attains a level of merit in his work 
that only a few of his contemporaries meet. He has the ability to 
recognise the creative vision of his client within the ton and budget 
through his careful and thoughtful choice of model caning combined 
with his meticulous ability in the field. Jean Luc Brunel si true find in 
our industry. 
There are plenty of ar directors out there, but none with the depth and 
quality that Mr. Brunei possesses He is unlike anyone in this industry, 
and I expect to see him continue to find great modes in his auccessilli 
career. Someone overflowing with talent as Jean lAre Brunel should be 
given every opportunity to work in the. United States where he will have 
the proper venues t.,1 showcase his extraordinary talents. 
Please do not hesitate to contact me should yists have any questions 
regarding this matter. Thank you tor rout tinge and c6nsideration. 
Sincerely, 
Vladimir Yudat h 
FiGaro 
PIIII 1111116C09P 11,11141111 11101047 
trya WIOwe,hk0.6Aok 4,4 
KW MP*, 11~111141P0 1W4.11111 
'14. 4144-11*1 1114014 .4 .114 • 1. • 
111.0Z4440111.7 - 
Deportmant Sseurity 
Unibed StainCitinereship ailed forensigration Sorricias 
Vermont torticoeshease 
30 Houghton &mot 
$ad Mews. VT 0847$ 
Number 1517141S 
M1?, Nt4 
Zer 
fotboxeftary Maly es eh Altciroictoir alw$ Talent Coorditiallok col brawl or 
itooltHisec ado Notif-no &woe 
fn. Ct .4,t•=, or:qtr 
4,1* 011r*Ciat t?i," L-,:tpi 
ti,titiOrt  
AI 1C#490 : 14.11CC191-4, 4.;71'..„1 ,1:T out" be i•Necits$241 ion*. the 
earipeis itemeidlet1  ' ek.4,•1,ei ix?! 4.ist th3 cirdi 
190,11014000 0040‘411!,..,p+-)- ,Y)Odrotti 4,4,4421100P id 470? i,ti.. Ntija feted 
tip Pa aNnelf has r:ort_nrinai  rc...,1w-14.,111 
967, T.,A1.9 i'Ort Co, volit ;4'; Of ,:!..lt"'t:;( MOOG Pc.,;7:en7;r.`r-c t tblo Hi  I t'.'WeriPi ,7•41.110)011. 
e tot...? gyfact,-;rniii,•rn:7rine4.1 07C'Slor 1777V;',..1;`, fIrritt 
.1** 19.117s 1nP SOitd '474104" r 400-110 111,10 yew 
e-7.4 finor - 41, ' °Y'j I1 
11,,:rarrcz at $30-i or SZ,V7 f7..1 V09„:1, 1410 fiOrleir 
vere Core. Some/ Isq6ing. 2res ew rr 
Mr, el'Utiel t-‘21, r"-.1!!! ItP• a '; %.":411t1  ISUCt/ 
t4,:fitet SINCIten v-torttO Eit401 1•Vs34fStk CI-4411iro Se ovitrarea.ese 
warelev's as OPOIC041060 - 2 rtei. covet rroasi.-. 
*hi, wow). cocoocro 4 • i r,v20-. • f. 3rid spa , ?Dory 
‘j few t ot • IC, jt.0 t .40 e419400: .1WP0Z0Fir WL ,A,q, 10011r3 •rtli 
ovone," iPQ giocip.(-yrywArt t• tytut '-;fa "Arai+ i.ftiftrlut, 
r-***f-d ILTIt'fr-•-t r 001V1 
firrelertteii 
jt • r*.:11;) z 4- Af'," 6a.e .jr* cV r 5*-7.N.; 
*at- nti tr-r, L r t1):. heat 4, resiesero iht ,ecs 
'es • "0%.cr Cs 0 ‘11:74r-' 
x/eOlk. '+oftakil.-. • I 
106. 
_ — 
; 
MODELWERK 
T401 ;AN I tiambil 
.6o4 I I .';,,41c 11460f%, 
El "Um ta !I • III 11!' 
Alaxklvorli, 
Hamburg 8 July. 2014 
Deporfrnenl of Homeland Securiiv 
United Slates Citizenship and kr -nigrah:on Services 
Vermont Service Center 
30 H.D3.,ightorl Street 
S4011 Albans. VI 05478 
Re: 0-1 Extraordinary Atitily as an Ar Dire cc and 'latent Cocrdinatcr :n 
behalf of Jr-Luc Didier -.enri-Reno bum! 
To Whom 'I May Conce—i 
As a P•35ideril of Morietwcrk. his letter is suorriited in suoper of tAC2 
Models Miami. ,.1.0 or behalf of Mr. Jear. is Brunel -0 work as or Art 
Director and Talent Coordinatc,, 
Mr Brunel -.olds an 41e-iatIonal repufallor as a visible e'alegic 
netwomer who 'I able "o cultivate expert relationship management *Ns 
order to conduce business in a global er.vronmen° and brocr-, ocrarive 
deals. Mr. Brunel Ms a long listory mariKe-rig and ClagefilV lg rreitOf 
fashion campaigns. Throughc..at rim twertiN-five year COreeri me folg-:cn 
business. Mr. Brune has developea wor<twicia Oxc.usve triodclirci 3,vti 
cosmetic campaigns. Some of Iheie -notor cosmeric carnpc.\;ns include. 
Blo Them l with supermodet uie rvic'.Thersor.. PHA w w.eklecca hrorm-$. 
Christian Dior with Ctulshns,i seinCtiViCiVi<ay0 Margret Asiqr with Monica 
Meucci. Chariot with Plaiiir i Vf RicAervie.irr, ofkrge PsriJone rth Thery 
Mugler. and Cacho(' ",erturne wiN ' t. fiallestra. Mr..3!7+Jrpe has alsr., 
developed major fashion z.:;_;rr,-,):4ris ono Irios icsevt rped campaigrs ord 
exclusrve cavracts -no of the fast- ior 477, Such rii 
Yvel 50011 toff:y-0. Chondi Clristion Dor. 
4000M. 
;In addition to Mr. Jean Lur Brunel s extor.iive bijsinev; 
comer as Ws indimtua witn artistic vfl ono creoNe to 
him Nnd top fashion models tn reoresent Ir the United St at 
Should you have Ony Questions °boil Jeor _uc Nnei 
feet tree to contact me. 
PreSictene4° au " ;e' 1') 
tviodekverk \filiiiviarctilitr I;mill I 
Marc 
otaltationq. Its 
nh ha s helped 
I wr...110.,;:-.V-ce-is 
meeti,v vesv-auv 
Aly 11.70'4 
01001meni el Nontstext Sec" 
United Motes Myer WO and intrnigrolion Solviass 
Vermont Service Cartier 
30 Havgision Sires' 
Saint Alban rer 05011 
Re: 0-1 Etertxvcinary 103110 as cn Ad Meek/ Toient Coordinator on 
behalf at Jean-Luc Cr tlerwiliene Brunei 
TO Silvan tt may Concern: 
As a President al fiataBe PAWNS Management tvi tenet is fitornoted in 
waiscst es mC2 models mzrr.. LIC or Denott ot mi. Jim Luc asurffaP ft 
wok as an Art Director arid Tamen, Coadnalar. 
sat Brunei hold; co ritemotienol repitallon CtS oVISIbk. CkCitegiC 
nelerotter who is obse to cullivase evert fosalionsila management skill 
cedar 10 conteXt Dullness Via giatal ereinxweerd avi tvolier luoratree 
deals. hir inter has 0 long testacy in maiming and atIvertiong /Tao 
ladian campaigns Tryoughok.i his twerriplive yew career In lee fashion 
bushes& us. Brunei has developed vitifft•vidt ISCS:StvisrdI crld 
cosmetic comp:Ion" Sone of these maior casnedIc ccimpolcrs include; 
o Therm wen eiparritodel Be mcPowno4 f41104,S with RebeCco kw*. 
Chilean OW talith Christina Semonnorskom Margret Asia viiith Monica 
Meucci, Monet Win Potticio Von Rickonheim. Angel Pedume with Triseny 
hissfer. and Cot:hotel Parikene VAN' Aldo Sokoto. S. &run& has do, 
demaidPad rnalor fashicel campaigns cind has clvelOped campaigns end 
attar** contacts wilh some of the rvoltCrS 10p koshiCal clessgnors SuCh cIS 
Yves ScIrd sward. Chanei. Christian Dict Gucci Prado. ond Marc 
.i0c0Os. 
ji&.4-ji-ntaro MAIM Ur lorittlAta.13 ailla a /a, 407.3 V.1011 'Areek44 
lair 3 an Psi arm. .11. psi Jssm, puts netagrelopplal,_ "WY., nalss aarn-cdath. 
Qin 1,414X0iLIS241, & PARLIKSS IONA Lads PARSAW forts a 16 nal gixo ci• A 
en WOW to tic Joan Lac guide's eiders*. bLisifiele 
MOW Cs an incilvkilai with *MSc Alm eV ONIelvetoiu,i4 1161 MOW 
Plint MO top tookiart elcAseis so nsprissont et Ms tinted Slates-
Mead 'Mu hove any gumboils about Mr. Man toe Slung 
feet iree lo cardact mu, 
ii 
Vermont Service Center 
Attn: Premium Processing Unit 
30 Houghton Street 
St. Albans, Vermont 06478-2399 
Facsimile Transmission 
To: 
LUIS FONT 
Cirtzenshi 
and 
Services 
Fax Number: 19542414272 
Number of pages including cover: Date: September 6, 2014 
From: 
Email: 
Receipt Number: 
Vermont Service Center — Premiirn Processing Unit Fax Number: W2-288-1778 
W.; PREMIUM PROCESSINGODHS GOV 
Phone: 1-865-315-5718 
Attached you will find a copy of cu decision concerning your case 
The original decrsion will follow via mail If eligible to appeal our decision appeal forms mil be included 
—Important—Important-4'lmportant—Important-** 
If responding to a Request fa Evidence or !lent to Derry. ensure you include a copy of the decision immediately 
following your cover page and indicate the total number of pages included with your response Please include the case 
receipt number (e g EAC01 000 12345) with all correspondence 
Ensure when responding to this request that you fax your response to our NEW FAX NUMBER - B02-238-1778 
if you wish to mail a response, it must be sent to the VSC Premiirn Processing Unit at 30 Houghton Street, St Albans, 
VT 05478-2399 Do not send your response to the 75 Lower Weiden Street address, as that will cause delays and will 
not restart the premium processing clock until the response is identified as a premium processing case 
Title 8 CFR Section 103 2(b)(11) Submission of evidence in response to a Service request states 
All evidence subenMed in response to a Service request must be alornitted at one time The submission of only some 
or the requested evidence will be considered a request for a decrsicn based on the record 
This communcabon a ritended far the sole use of the individual to whom it is addressed and may contain inforrnabon that a prmleged confidential 
and exempt Iran disclosure under applicable law If the reac, of thrs corrimunration is riot the rlended recipen1 or the employee or agent for 
delvering the communication to the intended recluienl you are hereby netted that any drssernrialion distrkiuton or copyrig of the communication 
may be strrtry prohbled if you received this comrnunrcation ri error please notty the sender arTracirately by telephone arid return the 
communicator alume address above use Lin led Slales Postal Servre Thank you 
www.uscis.gov 
U S Department of Homeland Security 
U S Citizenship and Immigration Serviirs 
Nonce ot Action 
Page I of 4 
Applicant/PetItioner A # 
Appncation /Pent ;on 
Petition For A Nontninitp,rarit Worker Minn 'a 
Notice Date 
August /6 1014 
Response due by 
November 21, 2014 
MC2 MODELS MIAMI LL( 
LUIS FONT 
FONT LAW GROUP PA 
.1440 HOLLYWOOD Ita 511 41j 
HOLLYWOOD IL ,1,1021 
1-4 At. I 4Z. Z55(iN().-1 
-EAC14/255u803 
Applicant/Pelitiotier 
MC2 MODELS MIAMI LLC 
beneficiary 
BRUNEL JEAN LUC 
Receipt Number 
EACI4//550803(II 19) 
WVIUM PROCESSING 
IMPORTANT THIS NOTICE CONTAINS YOUR UNIQUE NUMBER AND MUST BE SUBMITTED IN TliE 
ORIGINAL WITH ITtE REQUESTED EVIDENCE 
1 U S Citizenship and Immigration Senaces iUSC1S) requires additional evidence to process your form Incase provide the 
evidence listed on the attached pagets) For Form 1-129 only, if you are requesting consulateembassy notdication, provide the 
requested evidence in duplicate 
2 Your respe must be received in this office on or before NoNeinbef 11 1014 Please note the required deadline for 
providing a response to this Request for Evidence The deadline reflects the mzumum period for responding to this RFE 
HilWetiet, since many immigration benefits are time sensitive, you are encouraged to respond to this request as early as possible 
but no later than the date provided on the request You will not be granted an extension of time to submit the requested 
evidence 
3 You must submit all requested evidence at the same time If you submit only some of the requested evidence, L'SCIS will 
consider it a request for a decision on the record [8 ('FR 103 2ib1t II ii 
4 You will be notified separately about any other applications or petitions you have filed 
5 From the date this office receives your resubmission, a minimum of 14 days will be required to process your form If you 
have not heard from LISCIS within 30 days, you may contact this office at r866) 3[5-5118 
6 Mad this nonce and your response to 
VSC heiruuni Pressing 
Vermont Semce Center 
30 Houghton Street 
Si Alb-ans VT 05478-2390 
vs- premium piote”iniatihs Qv 
U S Department of Hornefrind Security 
U S Citi2enship tind IMrnigrdtion Servites 
Nonce of Action 
Pagc 2 of 4 
EAC14ZZ550803  (!jig! ___________________ 
Responses flor Preini um Processing cases only) may beloxed to (8Q2) 488-1778 Include a  copy al this 
notice Thee inail address may only be used for inquiries Do not send responses to thee mail address 
I. I d9 0- Ili Extraordinary Ability in the Arts 
1 ou MCZ Models Miami LLC hied Form I 1Z9 Fetilion lor Nonintringrant Worker seeking 0 lit MII)Ift11111gRI11 
classification liar Jean Luc Brunel as an Art Director / 'latent Coordinator 
The 0 .113 classification applies to individuals with extraordinary ability in the arts The individual must have sustained 
national or international acclaim His or her achievements must be in the tiekl of expertise and show a record 01 
prominence in his or her lipid 
1G process your pennon and determine ml the beneficiary is eligible additional information is required 1 his request 
provides suggested evidence that you may submit to satisfy each requested nern You may 
Submit one some or all ol these alenis 
Submit none at the suggested items and instead submit other evidence to sa1is4 the request 
Explain how the evidence in the record already establishes eligibility 
Request a decision based on the Ter071 
Note poweveLthal, yQUIff ff5PPMfble lqr PrOviding evidence thatlksi  shows thaLyo  and the pIrtie ipstin_pplitigh 
meet all requirements Evidence must show that all parties were eligible for the requested benefit when you filed Form 
I 149 
General Requirements Inr All 0 Nomintrugrant Petitions 
In general petitions seeking 0 nonimmigrant classification must include 
Copies of ontracts 
A description ol the competitionts) event (st or pertormance(s) and 
At least one consultation 
To saint, these requirements you submitted 
- Your letter in support ol the petition and 
Peer letters in support al the beneficiary trom Claudia Muloto and Alla Amaniova 
Beneficiary s Previous 0 - 1 Status 
Petitions involving an extension al status lor a beneticiary that has previously been gt al.te (I 0 1 nommringrant status 
may he given deference however U S Citizenship and Immigration Services (USC1S) is authorized to question 
extension petitions when a substantial change in circumstances occurs when relevant lads change lrom one petition to 
another or when the prior approval may have been based on gross USCIS error 
)ou militate that the benenciary was previously granted 0.1 nonimmigrant status with your company The details of 
the beneliciary s previous employment with your company are not documented in the instant petition A review of the 
evidence submitted indicates that it the beneficiary's role within your organization has remained unchanged the 
previous petition may have been approved in error. as the list ol duties you provided do not appear to descnbe a 
FOR oFFKI USE ONLY 
Form I 797 (8/03/90) Y 
U $ DeparlInciit of HOrrtland Security 
U S Citizenship and Immigration Servic es 
Notice of Acnoti 
Page 3 of 4 
MC14/4550803(1 I Z91 
position in the arts 
In addition DO evidence has been submitted to support your claim that the beneficiary is an individual who has 
extraonlinary ability In the ails that has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim Yu have 
documented the beneficiary s past success in the business of tot ming and operation modeling agencies but this evidence 
points to the benetiriarys ability on the field of business not the arts Therelore you are asked to comply with the 
following 
Contracts 
Pennons seeking 0 nonimmigrant classiftratton must include a copy ol a contract between the beneficiary and either the 
petitioner or the Pmpioyer II a wniten contract does not exist you may submit a detailed summary of the terms 01 the 
oral agreement between the beneficiary and either the petitioner or the employer 
You did not submit any evuleme lot this requitement You may still submit evidence to satisfy it 
Wniten COniraciS or the summary of the Innis of an oral agreement must specilv the terms and conditions ol the 
employment or services They must 
Specify the wage altered antl explain the terms and conditions under which the benetictary will pertorm these 
services, and 
- Detail any additional services provided 
Nature of the Event or Engagement 
'Jou must provide an explanation of the competition event or pertomiance in which the N./IMP-My will participate 
An event means an activity surh as a scientific project conlerenre convention lecture senes academic year or 
engagement during the requested validity period 
The description you submitted is insufficient In your latter you list the duties at the proffered position as 
10'SpOnS11)1e 101 overseemg the artistic aspects at the agency (select the images placed on the model, 
business cards ,:nd in their porilohos) 
Coordinate the pairing of models with photographers 
Direct the marketing of models to chents 
Travel around the world 10 tint-Over new Ulm( and 10 sign them with MC Z Models and 
Establish relationships with agencies around the world and negotiate representation agreements 
The duties you descnbe appear to relate exclusive!) to the maintenance ot business cpvrations of a modeling agency As 
previously stated you have thxumented the beneficialy s past success in forming arid operating modelmg agencies 
however this e kicience points to the beneficiary s ability in the held 01 business not the ails It is not evident therelore 
that the 0 18 noturturagrant classification is appropriate In the inSlanl case 
Regulations define the 'arts" as any held of creative activity or endeavor such as but not limited to line arts visual arts 
culinary arts and perfomung arts Ahens engaged in the held of arts include not only the princtpal motors and 
performers but other essential persons such as hut not limited 10 directors Set designers lighting designers sound 
designers choreographers choreologists conductors orchestrators coaches arrangers musical supervisors costume 
FOR LARK £ US/ ()NIA 
Form I 797 (/O3/9O) /* 
If 11 Deo twin of Homeland Sr-runty 
U S Citizenship (ind immigration Servii es 
Notice of Action 
Page 4 of 4 
MC14 a 550803(11/9) ___________________________________________________________________________________ 
designers makeup artists flight masters, stage technicians. and animal trainers 
The duties you describe correspond to business anti management fUTIMOTIS DOI to a position In the arts Before 
adiuthcation of your petition can proceed this discrepancy must be resolved 
You may still submit evidence to sanity this requirement 
The desknplion must include 
An explanation of the nature of the events or activities. 
Beginning and ending dates at the events or activities. and 
A copy of any itinerary that shows dates name(s) ot the employer (s) and location of the event (s) 
You mot establish that the proffered position qualifies as a position in the arts as described above Any and all claims 
must be Why supported by documentary evidence 
FUR ,FFP.. I USE uNLI 
Form 1797 (8/03/90) Y 
FONT LAW GROUP, P.A. 
3440 Hollywood Boulevard, Suite 415 
Hollywood, FL 33021 
Tel.: (954) 241-4271 Fax: (954) 241-4272 
November 3. 2014 
Director 
United States Citizenship& Immigration Services 
Vermont Service Center 
75 Lower Welden Street 
Saint Albans. VT 05479 
RE. NOTIFICATION OF WITHDRAWAL OF 1-129 PETITION 
WITHOUT PREJUDICE BY PETITIONER 
EAC-14-225-50803 
Petitioner: MC2 MODELS MIAMI LI.0 
Beneficiary: JEAN LUC DINER HENRI RENE BRUNEL 
Dear Sir/Madam: 
Please be advised that this office represents the above referenced petitioner and beneficiary in 
this immigration matter and a G-28 from our office is on file. 
THE PETITIONER, MC2 MODELS MIAMI LLC HEREBY NOTIFIES USC1S THAT IT 
WISHES TO WITHDRAW 1-129 0-1 PETITION #EAC-14-225-50803. The petitioner requests 
withdrawal of this 1-129 petition without prejudice. Please note this request for the record in the 
above referenced case. 
We respectfully request that you send us verification of this withdrawal pursuant to the 
regulations contained in 8 C.F.R. Sec. 103.2 (h) (15). 
Kindly send our office a written verification of this withdrawal located at: 
Font Law Group. P.A. 
3440 Hollywood Boulevard. Suite 415 
Hollywood. FL 33021 
Thank you tbr your attention to this matter. 
---- Original message From: Jeff Fuller 
Date:11/12/2014 11:49 (GMT-05:00) 
To: Jean Luc Brunel 
Subject: RE: New York 
Jean Luc, 
I am really sorry you feel so bad and I know it has been a mental and psychological frustration. As you 
know I chose to partner with you due to your reputation in the business for being a top scout and 
developing a couple world class agencies in the past. I knew what you could bring and I knew what I 
could bring and contribute and I thought it would be a great partnership. Clearly, I never expected to 
have the level of challenges we have had recruiting new models over the last several years. I could have 
never foreseen the problem of your friendship with Jeffrey Epstein turning into the situation it has 
where you are seen as guilty by association when you have never done anything or even been convicted 
of a crime. Frankly, I don't understand the necessity for Conchita Sarnoff or anyone else to continue to 
defame your name and MC2 by association. 
It is true that we constantly have to justify ourselves when recruiting new models. The industry is 
extremely competitive and as a parent myself if faced by the same information and having to make a 
tough decision between too agencies I would not pick MC2 if I saw the article online about you. You 
have to read closely to see there is not a charge against you but the implication is strong and of course 
now days everyone believes everything they read online even more than the traditional newspapers of 
the past. 
I know you are now feeling like a liability to MC2. But you personally are not a liability to MC2 but this 
published information online is a liability. We are not a large enough company, nor do we have the 
capacity to fight this on a global level. On a google search in America we have put enough information 
online to not have it popping up so blatantly but we have no controls over the rest of the world or the 
finances to control this situation and we are affected as every major model agency recruits it's best 
models from all the various countries abroad. This has stunted our growth and our billing over the past 
6 or 7 years. In fact, we do not even know who avoids us based on finding this information. I have been 
surprised how challenging it is for us to grow due to this problem. 
I have also had a tremendous amount of worries from our clients that we are vendors for that are large 
American corporations likes Kohls, JC Penney, Sears, Nordstrom, Target, Neiman Marcus, Macys, Saks, 
Belk, and so forth that require vendor agreements and for us to be considered an upstanding 
company. It really worries me as some of those companies have disassociated themselves from what 
EXHIBIT K 
they believe to be questionable companies. So far that has not been a problem but it could come up in 
the future. 
The fact that you are requested for so many scouting events in various countries and cannot promote 
yourself properly to promote MC2 in the press due this problem has it's own sent of repercussions in 
terms of our global branding. In short, it has had a terrible effect on MC2 all around. I really urge you 
to solve this problem and get this removed from the internet so we can grow for the future. I've fought 
for MC2 and been extremely loyal but I must confess that I have even been feeling inadequate and 
questioning my ability as the leader of the organization. I can only attribute the fact that we have 
scraped by in the recession and barely survived in the past to your hard work, my hard work, and the 
tenacity of both of us combined. 
I can only imagine that if I am feeling inadequate and frustrated over a lack of growth of our company 
that you must feel even worse as you have had much greater success in your career and have operated 
at much higher standards in our industry in all areas from reputation, respect, admiration and monetary 
gains. I can even surmise you are probably feeling a level of depression and I have seen it in your highs 
and lows and when you have voiced your frustration. While I know you well and recognize you don't 
really go for the kind of advice I will offer; however, I think you should at least speak to someone neutral 
such as a therapist or a counselor to let your frustrations out and if you don't feel better and are still 
feeling down or depressed to see a medical doctor for your condition. You are such a positive person I 
hate to see you fighting what you feel is a hopeless battle. It is not hopeless you just need find a way to 
get that information offline and begin to repair your reputation. In the end I am afraid the damages are 
a lot more than you realize but let's keep fighting and moving forward as we have no choice. 
Thanks, 
Jeff 
Jeff Fuller 
President 
MC2 Model Management USA 
EXHIBIT K 
FROM: JACQUIE JOHNSON <.J.JOIINSONaiRRA-LAW.( 'OM> 
DATE: SEPTEMBER 18, 2009 3:57:44 PM EDT 
TO: "'TAMAQTKUDNIANLAW.COM" <TAM.VerTKUDMANLAW.COM> 
CC: "BRADLEY J. EDWARDS" <BEDWARDS4RRA-LAW.CONI> 
SUBJECT: EPSTEIN - DEPO OF JEAN WC BRITHNEL 
We have confirmation for Mr. Bruhners deposition on 11/3. We will commence at 10:00 a.m. if that is ok 
with you. 
Jacquie Johnson 
Legal Assistant to 
Brad Edwards, Esq. 
Partner 
Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler 
401 East Las Olas Blvd. 
Suite 1650 
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33301 
Telephone 954 315 7264 
Fax 954 527 8663 
JiohnsonOrra-law.com  
EXHIBIT L 
---Original Message—
From: Tama Beth Kudman <tama@tkudmanlaw.corn> 
Date: Monday, November 16, 2009 at 7:48 PM 
To: Jean Luc Brunel <2jeanluc@gmail.com> 
Subject: Re: Hi 
>All depos are cancelled for now. A letter confirming this is being 
>Sent out today. We have no idea how long this shall delay things. I'll 
>let Michael know. 
> 
>Sent from my iPhone 
>Tama Beth Kudman 
EXHIBIT M 
From: "Dr. Royce Jalazo" <dynamicbeh@gmail.com> 
To: joetitone708@comcast.net 
Sent: Tuesday, December 23, 2014 2:40:59 PM 
Subject: Jean Luc Brunel 
Mr. Titone, 
Please accept this email as my formal notification that Mr. Jean Luc Brunel attending an 
outpatient individual psychotherapy session with me on 12/12/14. 
Thank you, 
Royce N. Jalazo, Psy.D. 
Licensed Psychologist 
Dynamic Behavioral Consulting 
a DBA of Dr. Royce Jalazo, P.A. 
1975 E. Sunrise Blvd., Suite 532 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33304 
Direct (With Voicemail): 954-232-7092 
Toll Free Fax: 888-236-6979 or 954-208-3400 
E-mail: DvnamicBeh@qmail.com 
Website: www.DynamicBeh.com  
EXHIBIT N 
jtosa...i60  
SCISkIll tWNIib Scuion 
rrred 
Or.EessedSad 
_Pe-,c nteim  
J'affit°PriAt 
I-1rg 
DIC T110,1: an 4. tit.* di Mot 
!SMik 
'IMMORAL 
L, 
t'ONSULTING 
etychii*enempy_______yasuahom_____________entiskillatiterws 
Clio* 
Strike 
skin #: 
MOOD. ras ehrfsr 
LhInv LaNyrnic 
_$eztieliAnt 
ficiic106 _____ 
Otivrt fTpn 
AFFECT; 4,Act-A  
ANyurmitc 
Waited RI:sin:Jed 
neat 1Prusevis Idenandtwit,istetinit 
Dynamic 4wIir Cossaidgeg 
1P5L Semis* Blvd, Wilt 512 
Litseeniske awl& 33304.1413 
Data T 1s4 TH FR SASH 
Tim lh I S  n.ns. oir:  ILIIL p.sti. 
Donstlan:O tninuto 
Apegrvuy--
sligirly Intense 
ter:Itirczt 
I E Ch4cnuuu 
mteounk  
aPP'). LIZAAir ifILL48,  
Was pasiezt Neirovwf tor psyciturg- evaltsaton amitr-ggni-ki end in prm-rthrciproSotrYrt- me:41-a4:ign Fir,',113-2:11.11 te 
Frnent!, mon-vornplive 0 V EDI annrnctit-
Is ptteci ctirnani taking ps)vbx,-*E rrodicationt: DD ii, Pcenc: 
Cornplisat N'A a N Cartrs--4 
NIOTIVATI(YI FOR TRE 4,TMENTtriaNGE:__________ 
14J14, inotimod fli3u,I,bty m*1m Dii,rt  
DISPOSITKIN: 
o Conmlur Ttvacalcnt Termitaiten treetmex 0Reef le 
1 Ottl-et: 
ot 04A.•.,.11., LAM 
11:44444-L4e . 
iteyeeN Imo, Pt) ID 
Immo Fsocsaistaz PY1611 
EXHIBIT 0 
Ussonatinsed 
COMPOSITE 
EXHIBIT P 
MEDICAL 
HISTORY 
tagarifil°4411.1"." 
ki*/ • *re eg4 Wel it Wel W4,1111, " }I: ft 
" 0.41 6" • 44-0 teid.11.601401011%"!‘ • - pa 
I P. 
1'P e. .6i6411: 
14444: W11 
10+66..0* la IOW& SA 
•pf ;La UP+ 4 Wylie 44,4 410 • 
• .ab • IVA ;' Pa On I. 4;1 ij 11'41-7-w4" 41 
Vol 
/0 44-4P4`41.4-1 1111444111 
1f imt anion minuswiq 
4511151(1I1Oist•i+.44)-4rIpiv5 
se ) /144.10" m.40.n• 0•04m1"4eulte 
— .4eir 
— WOW,-- at" , 
00 Inn LIMO  ( I hirim, 
V 
WOW 
(.1M2111M Sb 
111$1.41)1111,1JUS:01..0111.1 
(WO titnarattriuntsit 
• 
MO? 
AN' 
a 
c.744.• • + V,T1 
.. .444 
4,a 
it tirftr+11411,14.4.4,1 
I VU44114x-r•ilv.• 
1-131, 11 I I "ARO •414.4.4 '141444 
PIP'04411110$141114111.0.1' 
Iii 1."41c+11411 
1 444,14.141N 41.0144.4+4 la 4111,, 
I 
I-N.114411 WI I - 44'4 II 411% 
goingteuttnamo 
1VIldSOH MN 
NH  
fsowEntnatli5thav 
BNH HOSPITAL1NR 31 
soict lava (Bangkok Ntaing Homo Hospital) 
MR. JEAN - LUC BRUNEL 
Prozac (20 Mg) Capsule # 
Take 1 Capsule 
Once Daily After Breakfast 
0141221248 
02/12/2014 135,53 
Tel. 02.680-2700 Fax. 02432-0S17-9 wend ON 
tnwEran 
BNH H 
.c, „„ (Bangkok Nursing 
MR. JEAN LU 
Rivotril (2 
Take 1 Tablet 
Once Daily Before 
(It May Cause Dr 
EXHIBIT Q 
EscortAgeosy. 
ft/Or =doling money owriat ion. Luc &t4nai who covana Oat LIC2 meactcy in Miami Sawn, &wort 
Mho Woe to Ingot and firml lhamaehitia ontinarad ta a 
itvAnclarwalbola:644/as.yi ottgoituido-llorda abo-ikialapaltorgtoliancioloricia-1, filic011-
1410,Cyl- triggir 
gelEscort  In Floctio  
Thri mist popular grown-up 014 awed inmitia %item topottad by WOriv. .. Fiend') =doling loamy oovnot 
Jean. Luc Brunei, who co-owat tha MC2 nsawy 
4:acv-tiLeAtIcrect‘arkai fl ofgrirjat- -Mi4.,Gitrointiaa-abc-sta3.apa yi.tagigal S ascott in rionda 
NovtUnAkinagijings1Ert 
Sinew- laritkils *ice inroad, Moict radio niativinet drop Icktilas from , French modeling agency nwriet 
ilamseptuo lininet who ork-awna Intt14102 agancy inP 11714 
air Moors ttbc- scS-opit 7$,4~,4-Drinotilvmhuni-be,410 _ • 0%60.03 Ii1heara-abc4el$, apayi itrboirito-
rniekraik-bnalcry 'mar%) d4rs.or 
PAWNoftwakin nal. Mate Iacono ant legitimate prolassiortniti Rand) matialtig ;loamy &Arno joan,Luic 
Isruniol./Alho crpoing ft* AiC2 hrjoino hi ?Atom 004‘ch 
oticesite.;044mettA" -10 orgickrea, vvitotium yi worms Inc-actin" 5imjlig 
I - 
;.-e-
• 0.J 41.,4411, '" ' 
uvehat J.gø Lta 4%1M11, Vriio colymta lila MC2 Agart4m libittni fiaach 
aboa Oar Yea i Citillo Florida Etiebeil , 
41itytive 9,01 eirtp 114101114)110rfv5ilr.irI Yt, 11 .1`., rttwi • • t iiiiLsOe lit 
ESCQL1-1 
miseak bend., Illagida *scans in. No Strinps Atsactioa c reni-41 friothoit%0 eifirrtiv 
aft on-owniv A4C2 army - 
1044as„ rdige liozwpet g1L =gm. owe; fi tda. gaiong 
EXHIBIT Q 
http://www.politico.com/blogsiunder-the-radar/2014/12/court-filing-levels-sex-claims-at-
alan-dershowitz-200495.html 
Woman who sued convicted billionaire over 
sex abuse levels claims at his friends 
By JOSH GERSTEIN I 
12/31/14 6:38 PM EST 
A woman allegedly kept as a sex slave by politically-connected billionaire investor Jeffrey 
Epstein, who went to jail for having sex with underaged girls, is accusing several prominent 
friends of the financier of having taken part in the debauchery, according to a new court filing. 
The woman—referred to in court papers as Jane Doe #3—leveled the allegations Tuesday 
against Harvard Law School professor Alan Dershowitz and Britain's Prince Andrew, as well as 
British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell and French model scout Jean Luc Brunel. 
Dershowitz flatly denied the claims about him Wednesday in an interview with POLITICO. 
It's totally, unequivocally and completely false," the celebrated attorney said. 
A spokesman for Prince Andrew denied the allegations Friday, while a lawyer who handled 
related matters for Maxwell did not respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Representatives of 
Brunel's modeling firm also did not reply to e-mail messages. 
The accusations came in a long-running lawsuit charging federal prosecutors in Florida with 
violating a victims-rights law by failing to consult with Epstein's victims before signing off on a 
plea deal. That pact ruled out any federal prosecution of the investor, who agreed to plead guilty 
to two state prostitution-related felony charges. Lawyers for the victims have described the 
arrangement as a sweetheart deal the well-connected Epstein and his high-powered legal team 
achieved by putting pressure on prosecutors. 
Epstein served 13 months of an 18-month sentence on the two state charges before being 
released in 2009. He's now a registered sex offender. 
The new court filing, submitted by Florida lawyer Brad Edwards and former federal judge Paul 
Cassell in a federal court in West Palm Beach, Fla., asked that Jane Doe #3 and another woman 
be allowed to join the pending case over the victims' rights claim. 
"Epstein...trafficked Jane Doe #3 for sexual purposes to many other powerful men, including 
numerous prominent American politicians, powerful business executives, foreign presidents, a 
well-known Prime Minister, and other world leaders. Epstein required Jane Doe #3 to describe 
EXHIBIT R 
the events that she had with these men so that he could potentially blackmail them," the court 
filing said. 
"One such powerful individual that Epstein forced then-minor Jane Doe #3 to have sexual 
relations with was former Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz, a close friend of Epstein's 
and well-known criminal defense attorney. Epstein required Jane Doe #3 to have sexual relations 
with Dershowitz on numerous occasions while she was a minor, not only in Florida but also on 
private planes, in New York, New Mexico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands," the legal pleading 
added. 
Dershowitz called the allegations "totally made up and totally fabricated from beginning to end." 
He said he was not in the places described in the filing at the relevant times, with one exception: 
he did visit Epstein's private island in the Caribbean on one occasion. 
"I was there with my family," the renowned law professor said. 
Dershowitz said in a follow-up interview after this post first appeared Wednesday that he's 
planning to file bar complaints against Edwards and Cassell for inadequately vetting their client's 
story. 
"I'm planning to file disbarment charges against the two lawyers who signed this petition without 
even checking the manifests of airplanes or travel itineraries, et cetera," he said. "I'm also 
challenging the young woman and the lawyers to level those charges against me outside of the 
courtroom, so that I can sue them for defamation.....Finally, I'm challenging the woman to file 
criminal charges against me because the filing of false criminal charges is a crime." 
The motion accuses Prince Andrew of similar actions, asserting that "Jane Doe #3 was forced to 
have sexual relations with this Prince when she was a minor in three separate geographical 
locations: in London (at Ghislaine Maxwell's apartment), in New York, and on Epstein's private 
island in the U.S. Virgin Islands (in an orgy with numerous other under-aged girls)." 
Previous press accounts have reported on Prince Andrew's friendship with Epstein, who was 
known as a philanthropist and supporter of scientific research before the criminal investigations 
began nearly a decade ago. However, the earlier accounts stopped short of accusing the prince of 
sexual involvement with girls Epstein procured. In a 2011 Vanity Fair story, Prince Andrew 
denied any such contact. 
While a Buckingham Palace spokesman did not respond to POLITICO's query about the matter 
on Wednesday, the palace issued a denial to several British news outlets Friday. "This relates to 
long-standing and ongoing civil proceedings in the United States, to which The Duke of York is 
not a party. As such we would not comment on the detail. However, for the avoidance of doubt, 
any suggestion of impropriety with underage minors is categorically untrue," the statement said. 
Prosecutors said in a 2007 draft letter they'd identified 40 young women who could be 
considered victims of Epstein's illegal acts. Many of them filed lawsuits or claims against 
Epstein and reached out-of-court settlements for amounts that were not disclosed. 
EXHIBIT R 
While "Jane Doe #3" is unidentified in this week's court filing, her story appears to track with 
that of a woman who sued Epstein in 2009 and settled with him later that year. She apparently 
granted an on-the-record interview to Britain's DailN Mail in 2011. 
Some of the fascination with Epstein on the part of tabloids and glossy magazines stems from his 
ties to former President Bill Clinton. In 2002, Epstein provided his 727 to Clinton for a trip to 
Africa to study anti-AIDS programs. Celebrities such as Chris Tucker and Kevin Spacey came 
along for the ride. The new court filing makes no mention of Clinton, Tucker or Spacey. 
The federal investigation obtained manifests for Epstein's private jet travel, but prosecutors 
never charged anyone besides the investor with involvement in obtaining or using underaged 
girls for sexual purposes. 
The new court filing says this result is in part due to the fact that Epstein's legal team—which 
included such heavyweights as former independent counsel and solicitor general Ken Starr, trial 
lawyer Roy Black, and Dershowitz—negotiated a deal that precluded the feds charging anyone 
as a co-conspirator. 
Lawyers for Jane Doe #3 argue in the new motion that Dershowitz put this language in the 
agreement to protect himself. 
However, the law professor told POLITICO he didn't negotiate that deal and it wasn't aimed at 
protecting him. "I had nothing to do with drafting the non-prosecution agreement," he said. 
Dershowitz added that the last draft of the agreement mentioned four people by name who 
wouldn't be prosecuted and he was not among them. All were regular associates or assistants of 
Epstein, the lawyer said, adding that the final language removed those names and simply barred 
federal prosecutors in South Florida from going after any potential co-conspirators. 
Epstein and his lawyers fought hard to prevent records about his plea negotiations from being 
turned over to victims' attorneys. However, U.S. District Court Judge Keith Marra ruled last year 
that the victims are entitled to examine those records to prepare their case against the 
government. 
Epstein, Black and others appealed that decision to the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit Court of 
Appeals, but it ruled in April of this year that no privilege protects plea negotiations in this sort 
of dispute. 
Edwards and Cassell did not respond to requests for comment for this post, including an inquiry 
about their response to Dershowitz's comments. However, the pair appear to be pressing forward 
with the victims' rights lawsuit, which seeks to unravel the no-federal-prosecution deal cut for 
Epstein in 2007. 
UPDATE (Wednesday, 7:18 P.M.): This post has been updated with further comment from 
Dershowitz. 
EXHIBIT R 
-------- Original message-------- 
From: Abi Schwinck 
Date:16/01/2015 05:16 (GMT+07:00) 
To: Pink ,Jean Luc Brunel „Jeff Fuller 
Subject: FW: Victoria 
From: Erik Bechtal [m ai Ito : erik@pageparkes.corn1 
Sent: Thursday, January 15, 2015 5:12 PM 
To: Abi Schwinck 
Subject: Victoria 
Hey Abi1 
Hope you're well. : ) I've just had a conversation with Victoria, and she isn't comfortable 
remaining with MC2 with all the drama going on right now in the press. She's asked me to 
contact you on her behalf. Please let me know if you see any issue with this. Thanks so much! 
Erik Bechtol 
Agency Director 
Page Parkes Houston 
v‘, w.patleparkesage ncy.com  
The Page Parkes Building 
1535 West Loop South, Suite 110 
EXHIBIT S 
Houston, TX 77027 
P: 713 807.8222 
F: 713 807 0055 
EXHIBIT S 
