From: 
Sent: 6/25/2017 9:10:33 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: RE: Hello!!! 
Importance: High 
Thanks!!! 
Gerontologist, Longevity & Successful Aging 
From: jeffrey E.  
Sent: Sunday, June 25, 2017 4:59 PM 
To: 
Subject: Re: Hello!!! 
Great news 
On Sun, Jun 25, 2017 at 4:53 PM wrote: 
Hi Jeffrey, 
Just called, but not sure I have the right cell number for you. Thinking of you and hope life is treating you great! Any 
news? 
All good here in the District of Corruption — I'm lovin' Trump. He is turning this town on its head, and have to admit, 
I'm enjoying watching the action (except for the shooting, of course, which was tragic). Especially interesting is 
watching the Dems implode — I'm really shocked at how wrong they judged the public. Am having dinner tonight with 
one of the Blue Dog Dems, and think they could maneuver to take over the party — Rep. Jim Costa is the defacto head — 
we'll see. Have popcorn, sitting back and watching the show 0 
Just got a big promotion to Manager of Senior Health, Virginia Hospital Center/Mayo Clinic. Am very excited, and love 
the job — it is so rewarding. I spend most of my time giving lectures on neurodegenerative diseases, sleep, heart health 
and strategies for longevity. And the rest of the time as liaison to State and local Department's of Aging, facilitator to 
the Alzheimer and Dementia Caregiver Support Group and managing the assistive technology program. 
If you hear of any special panels or commissions President Trump is forming, please keep me in mind. Sure the hospital 
won't mind loaning me out, and pretty sure I'm one of a handful of Republican Gerontologists 0. 
Let me know if you get to DC. Would LOVE to see you!!! 
Miss you and all the great times we had xxxx 
Gwendolyn 
PS. How are Fred and Mort doing? 
Gerontologist, Longevity & Successful Aging 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029970 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029971 
