Date: Friday, January 2 2015 11:14 PM 
Subject: truly outrageous S.i am so sorry for you & alan-
From: Lilly Ann Sanchez 
To: jeevacation@gmail.com; 
8EE9569C-058C-4240-9513-7655E297E217[9].png; 5C1BBOAB-366E-4484-A53B-A8165C8B536B.png; 
Attachments: 76138C22-EB95-4CF5-AADA-CB3D461BC4EE.png; FD41701B-1ACA-4262-B3E8-EB553F5705B2.png; 
DCE5E2CF-48F1-42F4-A922-833477C1EB2F.png 
Jeffrey - 
Please let me know if I can help in any way-
Story below-
Salacious new chapter in Florida billionaire's sex scandal 
effrey Epstein 
or years, the story of South Florida billionairemoney manager Jeffrey Epstein— involving allegations of human trafficking, an international underage sex ring, a Palm Beach 
ansion, a private island inthe Caribbean, and an FBI investigation— has been tabloid fodder inthe United States and the United Kingdom. 
o, Fort Lauderdale lawyer Brad Edwards is helping to write a new chapter inthis murky and sordid tale. Representing two alleged victims identified only as Jane Doe#3 and Jane 
oe #4, Edwards filed a motion in U.S. District Court in West Palm Beach that alleges well-known criminal defense lawyer Alan Dershowitz and Prince Andrew, the Duke of York, 
ere involved in Epstein's international sex ring. 
'There's absolutelyno kemel of truth to this story," said Dershowitz, who represented Epstein. "I don't know this woman. I've never been inthe same place with her. She's made up 
he whole story completely from whole cloth." 
dwards' motionrequests that his new clients jointhe case of two other alleged victims — identified as Jane Doe #1 and Jane Doe#2 in courtrecords — who are attempting to use the 
me Victims' Rights Act to force the U.S. Department of Justice to prosecute Epstein for sex trafficking of children by fraud and use of interstate commerce to entice a minor to 
ommit prostitution, among other offenses. 
wealthy Wall Streetmoney manager who had once attempted to purchase New York magazine, Epstein traveled the world in circles that included President Bill Clinton and 
usinessman Donald Trump. Despite his vast fortune and mansion in PalmBeach, Epstein kept a low profile and wasn't a regular inthe wealthy island's social scene. 
he low profile vanished in 2005, when a woman contacted the Palm Beach police fearing that Epstein had molestedher 14-year-old daughter. The girl told detectives she'd been 
nvited to Epstein's mansion, where she was paid $300 after stripping to her underwear and massaging Epstein as he masturbated. Police then located a community college student 
who gave a sworn statement that she had taken six girls, all betweenthe ages of 14 and 16, to Epstein. 
olice referred the case to the FBI. In September 2007, Dershowitz helped Epstein negotiate a then-secret non-prosecu on agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office, which deferred 
o the Palm Beach County State Attorney's Office for criminal charges, courtrecords show. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028921 
LINKEDIN 
http://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/community/miami- dadeiarticle5342709.html Page 1 of 3 
Salacious new chapter n Florida billionaire's sex scandal I The Miami Herald 1/2/15 6:11 PM 
In 2008, Epstein pleaded guilty to a state charge of solicitingprostitution with a minor and served 13 months of an 18-month sentence. 
After his conviction, Epstein's story grew even more bizarre, with anonymous women accusinghim in federal court of conspiring with Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter of the late British 
mediabaron Robert Maxwell, to operate an international underage sex ring. 
Edwards, the Fort Lauderdale lawyer, and Paul Cassell, a former federal judge who now teaches law at the University of Utah, filed a Jane Doe lawsuit against the U.S. government in 
July 2008, alleging that Epstein had committed crimes against their clients, including sex trafficking of children by fraud. 
The case, whichhas been pending for more than sixyears before U.S. District JudgeKenneth A. Marra, initially involved two women, identified as Jane Doe#1 and Jane Doe #2, who 
said they were sexually abused by Epstein and trafficked as minors. 
On Dec.30, 2014, Edwards asked to have two new accusers added to the case —identified as Jane Doe #3 and Jane Doe #4. 
Jane Doe#3 alleges inthe court filing that Maxwell and Epstein kept her as a "sex slave" from 1999 through20002, when she escaped to an unspecified foreign country. 
Epstein forced Jane Doe#3, who was then a minor, to have sex with politically connected and wealthy people , the court filing alleges. 
"Epstein's purpose in 'lending' Jane Doe [along with otheryoung girls] to such powerful people [was] to ingratiate himself with them for business, personal, political and financial 
gain, as well as to obtain blackmail information," the filing alleges. 
Jane Doe#3 identifies one of the men she was forced to have sex with as Dershowitz, a former Harvard lawprofessorandhigh- profile criminal defense lawyer. 
"Dershowitz was an eye-witnesstothe sexual abuse of many other minors by Epstein and several of Epste n's co-conspirators ," the filing alleges. 
Dershowitz denied the claims, describing them as part of an extortionplot. He called the filing "the sleaziest legal document I have ever seen." 
"They manipulated a young, suggestible woman who was interested inmoney," Dershowitz said. 
Dershowitz said he intends to file complaints against Edwards and Cassell. "This is a disbarrable offense, and they will be disbarred," Dershowitz said. "They will rue the day they ever 
made this false charge againstme." 
Knowingly making defamatory statements in courtrecords can be grounds for disbarment. Jack Thompson, a Miami lawyer who campaigned against violent video games and the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028922 
group 2 Live Crew, was disbarred forprofess onal misconduct that included making defamatory statements. 
"We're not comment ngon the story beyond our legal pleading," Cassel said. 
In the most recent court filing, Jane Doe #3 alleges that Epstein forced her to have sex with "many otherpowerful men, including numerous prominent American politicians, powerful 
business executives, foreign presidents, a well-known prime minister, and otherworld leaders." 
The filing names Prince Andrew, the Duke of York, as one of those world leaders. 
The Florida Center for Investigative Reporting is a nonprofit news organization supported by foundations and individual contributions. For more information, visit fcirorg. 
Palace Denies Allegations About Prince Andrew in U.S. Underage Sex Lawsuit 
Lilly Ann Sanchez, Esq. 
LS LAW FIRM 
Four Seasons Tower —Suite 1200 
1441 Brickell Avenue 
Miami, Florida 33131 
tel: 
fax: 
email: 
website: http://www.thelslawfirm.com 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028923 
