From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Attachments: 
Robert Trivers 
6/25/2018 2:19:44 AM 
jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Re: 
EPSTEIN.docx 
Importance: High 
perhaps i misunderstood "let's concentrate on you" 
Jamaica is bad enough but i have mastered that—at least the danger-4th highest murder rate in the world 
as for the us i have alienated large stretches of it—i will spare you the details 
i was amused that you are now friends with JD Watson 
he single-handedly prevented me from getting a Junior Fellowship at Harvard 
In 1972 I got my PhD in Biology and it was conventional to nominate the very best post-docs for a Junior 
Fellowship, Harvard's most prestigious award—it provided three years of research support without any duties. I 
was the best student out of Evolutionary and Organismic Biology in more than 20 years. The entire department 
was behind me. 
but Watson was on the 3-man committee, in charge of all the science candidates and he deemed my two papers, 
reciprocal altruism and parental investment and sexual selection as "not being science" and dismissed me in one 
sentence. Well bless his soul, he now does not even understand his own subject—yes, i speak of genetics—
because having remained resolutely ignorant of evolutionary logic and biology he can neither understand the 
shape and form of the genotype nor how it differs systematically within life 
i have been preparing something for you for a long time on human intelligence, Africa, parasites etc because i 
prefer to get things right but i am ready to send you what i have 
main focus is—Africans stupid or smart? 
bob 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025140 
On Sun, Jun 24, 2018 at 4:23 PM, Robert Trivers <__________________> wrote: 
Many thanks. By all means let's concentrate on me and not Trump. If Enhanced Learning can make its annual 
gift of 30 that would have a huge positive effect on me and my future. Let the market take care of itself All 
best 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Jun 24, 2018, at 2:02 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
trump ok, lets concentrate on you. trade war maybe good. shakes things up 
On Sun, Jun 24, 2018 at 8:11 PM, Robert Trivers <> wrote: 
Jeffrey 
finally landed 
very unpleasant journey 
you had nothing to do with how Chapman acted and i apologise for suggesting it might be otherwise 
it was entirely against me, partly motivated by a spiteful ex-friend 
consulted two lawyers that Gordon recommended but they were very discouraging 
the basic problem is simple—i am going against a strong national trend—well-known man after well-known man is being brought low for alleged 
his misbehaviour toward women—in some case well-deserved prison time (Cosby and perhaps Weinstein) in many other cases, simply being run 
out of institutions—exactly my fate 
furthermore in he say/she say confrontations the evidence has shifted—in University settings at least—from 'beyond a reasonable doubt' to a 
'preponderance of evidence' to 'more positive than negative' 
the loss is huge, on the order of a half million to a million dollars, meant to keep me alive (they were going to offer a five-year contract) while i let 
my 'inheritance' be spent on children and grandchildren while also growing 
i have no choice but to work 
i will get my revised Wild Life to an agent later this week—have added 5 new chapters and a few sections—much stronger for the inclusion of my 
major scientific work-1. social theory based on natural selection and 2. selfish genetic elements selected within organisms 
then i have Honour Killings set to roll, as well as another one 
hope you are thriving—and also hope Trump will stop this international trade nonsense—a lose/lose war—especially as it affects the stock market 
or so it seems to me 
best wishes 
bob 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025141 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 025142 
