From: Jeffrey Epstein [j eeva ca ti on@gma i I .com] 
Sent: 4/12/2014 11:24:06 AM 
To: Mariana ldikowska 
These conspiracy theories are an aberration and an insult to the memory of the crash victims, including the late 
President himself. As a Pole who is at least somewhat aware of the politics and economics of Poland, and a 
journalist who follows world politics and news developments daily, I am severely disappointed at the number of 
people that are flocking to these conspiracy theories, and academics and professionals who propagate such ideas 
should themselves feel ashamed. 
Firstly, there is absolutely no proof that there was any sabotage or subterfuge by either the Russians or the 
Prime Minister's political allies. Such accusations, then, without presenting any credible evidence, are 
slanderous. 
Also, there would be no political or diplomatic capital gained by either of the "accused"... there would be little 
for the Russian government to gain - it would be a huge diplomatic embarrassment for the Russian government 
to be found guilty of essentially assassinating a head of state. Kaczynski was one of the strongest allies of the 
U.S. among European leaders, and even Russia with its assertive diplomatic policies would not risk a complete 
breakdown with the U.S. by killing a close ally. International condemnation would also follow, and the 
President - perhaps even the Prime Minister - would have to resign and wave good-bye to any political career in 
the foreseeable future. Yes, "even in Russia." 
Similarly, for the Prime Minister's party, if he were actually complicit in the crash, that would man he - or his 
allies - committed a coup d'etat. Also, there will be early presidential elections in June, which might actually go 
in favor of the President's party because of a sympathy vote. The "acting" Presidency is in the hands of his party 
for only two months.., so, again, the Prime Minister and his allies have nothing to gain and potentially 
everything to lose in the June vote. 
Conspiracy-monging cheapens a national tragedy 
Political profit or loss questions aside, however, the conspiracy-monging seems to be taken as a way to discover 
who's responsible for the tragedy and thus somehow bring them justice. However, it is not a healthy way to deal 
with the tragedy. It is not conducive to national or personal healing. Furthermore, it disgraces and taints the 
memory of those who died. 
It only cheapens the tragedy and, sadly, may foreshadow what's to cone in the coming presidential campaign - 
the tragedy may be used by certain groups or individuals to propagate their own agenda and assume the 
presidency. 
It is not so different than what has been going on in the U.S., with the "birthers" claiming Barack Obarna is not 
legally the President because he is not actually a citizen, or even natural-born citizen. Not as morbid, of course, 
but still, in my honest opinion, ridiculous. 
Baseless, nonsensical conspiracies simply destroys the abikiy of the nation and people of Poland to move on 
and honor the memory of those lost, and cheapens the tragedy that has been felt by Poles as far away as Chicago 
as well, and commented on with deep sorrow and respect by U.S. politicians from Mayor Daley to President 
Obama himself 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030242 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
Jeffrey Epstein 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030243 
