From: J [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Sent: 3/5/2019 11:19:19 PM 
To: Martin Weinberg [owlmgw@att.net]; Weingarten, Reid 
________________________________; Ken Starr 
Subject: 
Fwd: Herald 
Lilly Ann Sanchez 
Privileged - Redacted 
----------Forwarded message--------- 
From: Lilly Sanchez I 
Date: Tue, Mar 5, 2019 at 6:08 PM 
Subject: Herald 
To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Miami U.S. Attorney's Office recuses itself from Jeffrey Epstein case 
Play Video 
DurationA 3:51 
AG nominee Barr pledges to look into handling of Epstein case 
Sen. Ben Sasse questioned attorney general nominee William Barr about the Jeffrey Epstein case on January 15, 
2019, getting the nominee to commit to having the Department of Justice look into the handling of that case if 
confirmed. C-SPAN Meta Viers 
BY JULIE K. BROWN 
jbrown@miamiherald.corn 
• 
• 
• 
R REPRINT OF THIS STORY 
Just days before a Friday deadline, the Justice Department has reassigned the Jeffrey Epstein victims' rights 
case to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Atlanta, the attorneys representing Epstein's victims' attorneys said 
Tuesday. 
Miami federal prosecutors, in letter to attorneys for the victims's lawyers on Monday, said they had recused 
themselves from the case, according to Brad Edwards and Jack Scarola, representing Epstein's victims. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031388 
The reassignment means that the U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Georgia, Byung J. "BJay" Pak, will 
oversee the case for the government. Pak, a former Georgia lawmaker, was appointed Atlanta's chief federal 
prosecutor by President Trump in October 2017. 
The Justice Department is still under a Friday deadline for prosecutors to confer with the victims' attorneys in 
an effort to settle the case. On Feb. 22, U.S. District Judge Kenneth A. Marra in Palm Beach ruled that federal 
prosecutors, under former Miami U.S. Attorney Alexander Acosta, broke the law when they concealed a plea 
agreement from more than 30 underage girls in Palm Beach who had been sexually abused by Epstein, a 
multimillionaire New York hedge fund manager. 
Marra stopped short of voiding the agreement, which granted Epstein and an untold number of accomplices 
immunity from federal prosecution for sex trafficking crimes, provided Epstein plead guilty to minor charges in 
state court. At the time of the plea deal, federal prosecutors had gathered enough evidence against Epstein to 
write a 53-page federal indictment, court records show. 
Play Video 
DurationA 
12:20 
The story behind a Palm Beach sex offender's remarkable deal 
The story behind a Palm Beach sex offender's remarkable deal 
Emily Michot 
An investigation by the Miami Herald, "Perversion of Justice," found that after Acosta met privately with one 
of Epstein's lawyers, the government agreed to seal the plea agreement so that no one — not the victims, not 
even the state court judge who sentenced Epstein — would know the full extent of his crimes. Epstein, now 66, 
was allowed to plead guilty to prostitution charges and served 13 months in the Palm Beach County jail, where 
he was given liberal work release, and allowed to travel to New York and his private island in the Caribbean 
during his subsequent house arrest. He was released in 2009, and now divides his time between New York, 
Palm Beach and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
The Herald interviewed four of Epstein's victims, who were as young as 13 at the time they were abused by 
Epstein. They said they felt betrayed by state and federal prosecutors, who treated them like prostitutes instead 
of victims. Two of them sued the federal government in 2008 under the Crime Victims' Rights Act, which 
grants crime victims the right to be informed about plea deals and to confer with prosecutors. 
Marra, in a 33-page opinion, said prosecutors not only intentionally violated the Crime Victims' Rights Act, but 
they misled the girls into believing that the FBI's sex trafficking case against Epstein was ongoing — when, in 
fact, prosecutors had secretly closed it after sealing the plea bargain from the public record. 
Marra, noting that he reviewed affidavits, depositions and interrogatories, said "Epstein worked in concert with 
others to obtain minors not only for his own sexual gratification, but also for the sexual gratification of others." 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031389 
The victims' attorneys — Edwards, Scarola and Paul Cassell — have asked the Justice Department to throw out 
Epstein's plea agreement and reopen the criminal investigation. 
Edwards, who brought the victims' rights case against the government, said transferring the case to another 
jurisdiction is a prudent decision. 
"I think it's good that we're going to get fresh eyes and a fresh opinion on the way the case was handled," 
Edwards said Tuesday. "We were obviously in an adversarial posture with the U.S. Attorney's Office in Miami 
because they handled the case to begin with." 
Miami's new U.S. Attorney, Ariana Fajardo Orshan — who was appointed by President Trump in September 
— did not respond to a request for comment. 
Play Video 
DurationA 
5:29 
Jeffrey Epstein apologizes, but not to his victims 
Jeffrey Epstein apologizes, but not to his victims 
Emily Michot 
Edwards predicted that it would take some time for Pak's office to review the case, which includes more than 
500 docket entries and thousands of documents. He said If the sides can't agree on a resolution, then Marra 
would likely have to come up with one. The case is being closely watched by crime victims' rights advocates, 
as it will likely set a precedent. 
Acosta, who was appointed by Trump as the U.S. secretary of labor in 2017, is the focus of a separate Justice 
Department investigation into whether there was any prosecutorial misconduct in the Epstein case. That probe, 
by the DOJ's Office of Professional Responsibility, was initiated in response to demands from a bipartisan 
group in Congress, led by Republican Sen. Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Democratic Rep. Debbie Wasserman 
Schultz of Florida. 
In the meantime, a court hearing will be held at 4 p.m. Wednesday in New York in another Epstein-related case. 
A federal appeals court will hear oral arguments in a motion by the Miami Herald, supported by 32 other news 
organizations, asking the court to unseal documents that could reveal details about the extent of Epstein's 
crimes and any other people who may have been involved. 
Three of Epstein's former attorneys — who helped negotiate his plea deal in 2008 — wrote a letter published in 
the New York Times on Monday, defending the plea bargain cut with Acosta as a fair deal. The letter was in 
response to a Times editorial that called on Congress and the Trump administration to hold Acosta and others 
involved in the case accountable. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031390 
Epstein's lawyers said the editorial's conclusions were "in profound conflict with the reality," noting that there 
was no evidence that Epstein committed federal sex trafficking offenses. The letter was signed by former 
Epstein lawyers Kenneth Starr, Jack Goldberger and Lilly Ann Sanchez, as well as Epstein's current attorney, 
Martin G. Weinberg. 
Read more here: https://www.miamiherald.com/news/politics-
government/article227136459.html#storylink=cpy 
Lilly Ann Sanchez 
The LS Law Firm 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031391 
