From: Lesley Groff 
Sent: 5/4/2016 6:06:21 PM 
To: Jefffrey Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fwd: Larry Summers - Foreign Affairs - The Fusion of Civilizations 
Importance: High 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Kelly Friendly 
Subject: Larry Summers - Foreign Affairs - The Fusion of Civilizations 
Date: May 4, 2016 at 2:05:48 PM EDT 
To: 
Reply-To: 
The Fusion of Civilizations 
The Case for Global Optimism 
Foreign Affairs 
May/June 2016 issue 
By Kishore Mahbubani and Lawrence H. Summers 
The mood of much of the world is grim these days. Turmoil in the Middle 
East, causing hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of refugees; 
random terrorist attacks across the globe; geopolitical tensions in eastern 
Europe and Asia; the end of the commodity supercycle; slowing growth in 
China; and economic stagnation in many countries-all have combined to 
feed a deep pessimism about the present and, worse, the future. 
Historians looking back on this age from the vantage point of later 
generations, however, are likely to be puzzled by the widespread 
contemporary feelings of gloom and doom. By most objective measures of 
human well-being, the past three decades have been the best in history. 
More and more people in more and more places are enjoying better lives 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026840 
than ever before. Nor is this an accident-because despite Samuel 
Huntington's foreboding, what has occurred over recent generations is not a 
clash of civilizations but a fusion of civilizations. 
To put it simply, the great world civilizations, which used to have detached 
and separate identities, now have increasingly overlapping areas of 
commonality. Most people around the world now have the same aspirations 
as the Western middle classes: they want their children to get good 
educations, land good jobs, and live happy, productive lives as members of 
stable, peaceful communities. Instead of feeling depressed, the West should 
be celebrating its phenomenal success at injecting the key elements of its 
worldview into other great civilizations. 
The march of reason, triggered in the West by the Enlightenment, is 
spreading globally, leading to the emergence of pragmatic problem-solving 
cultures in every region and making it possible to envisage the emergence of 
a stable and sustainable rules-based order. There is every reason to believe, 
moreover, that the next few decades can be even better for humanity than 
the last few-so long as the West does not lose confidence in its core values 
and retreat from global engagement. The greatest danger of the current 
pessimism, therefore, is that it might become a self-fulfilling prophecy, 
leading to fear and withdrawal rather than attempts to reinvigorate the 
existing global system. 
The origins of the contemporary era lie in the West's transformation during 
the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, and the Industrial Revolution. No 
other civilization can take credit for giving birth to modernity. This was not 
done with some benign intent to uplift humanity in general; there were 
many problems along the way, and the explosion of Western power across 
the globe had some terrible consequences for other cultures and regions. Yet 
the ultimate result was the diffusion of a modern outlook that relies on 
science and rationality to solve problems, much to the ultimate benefit of 
the planet's population. 
As recently as half a century ago, for example, there was a global clash of 
economic ideologies. Nikita Khrushchev, the former leader of the Soviet 
Union, could claim that the state was better at delivering basic goods to 
citizens than free markets were, but today such a view would be laughed at. 
The market economy has made Chinese and Indian workers today far more 
productive than they were under Mao Zedong or Jawaharlal Nehru, India's 
first prime minister. Societies now accept the simple fact that workers need 
material incentives to be productive, which has led to increased dignity and 
self-worth. The vast majority of humanity is literate, is at least somewhat 
mobile, and has access to the world's store of existing knowledge. Around 
half of the adults in the world own a smartphone, and there are now more 
connected mobile devices in total than there are people on the planet. 
The spread of science and technology, meanwhile, has also improved human 
dignity and well-being. Most people used to experience lives that were nasty, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026841 
brutish, and short. Today, life expectancy has increased by leaps and bounds 
virtually everywhere. Infant and maternal mortality have dropped sharply, 
thanks in part to the spread of clear hygiene standards and the construction 
of modern hospitals. According to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, as 
recently as 1988, polio was rampant in 125 countries; today that number is 
down to two. Aside from among the Taliban and a few pockets of upscale 
communities in the United States, the virtues of vaccines are accepted by all, 
part of a general consensus on the virtues of Western science and 
technology. 
And reason is replacing superstition more generally. People around the 
world now routinely do basic cost-benefit analyses when looking for 
solutions to problems, leading to a gradual improvement in outcomes 
everywhere, from agriculture and construction to social and political life. 
This helps explain the dramatic long-term decline in the rates of most kinds 
of conflict and violence that the Harvard scholar Steven Pinker has 
documented. 
After slavery and imprisonment, the most degrading condition a human 
being can experience is poverty. In 2000, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan 
announced as one of the ambitious Millennium Development Goals halving 
extreme global poverty by 2015. That goal was far exceeded, and the U.S. 
National Intelligence Council has predicted that extreme poverty will be 
reduced even further by 203o-which would constitute one of the most 
remarkable developments in human history. The global middle class, 
meanwhile, is projected to rise from 1.8 billion in 2009 to 3.2 billion in 
2020 and 4.9 billion in 2030. The world's infant mortality rate decreased 
from an estimated 63 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 32 in 2015. This 
translates into more than four million fewer infant deaths each year. 
Instead of optimism based on this recent progress, however, these days in 
the West, one more often encounters pessimism related to three current 
challenges: turbulence in the Islamic world, the rise of China, and intra-
Western economic and political sclerosis. But the pessimism is 
unwarranted, because none of these three challenges is insurmountable. 
MODERNIZING MUSLIMS 
The Islamic world, from Morocco to Indonesia, comprises 1.6 billion 
citizens-more than one in five people on the planet. The vast majority of 
them share the common global aspirations to modernize their societies, 
achieve middle-class living standards, and lead peaceful, productive, and 
fulfilling lives. 
Contrary to what some assert, Islam is fully compatible with modernization. 
When Malaysia built the Petronas Towers and Dubai built Burj Khalifa, they 
were not just erecting physical structures but also sending a metaphysical 
message: we want to be part of the modern world in all dimensions. Many 
Islamic societies have educated their women. In Malaysian universities, the 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026842 
women outnumber the men 65 percent to 35 percent. Even some Islamic 
countries that were initially reluctant to embrace modernization have begun 
to do so. For example, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates 
now feature satellite campuses of major Western universities. One reason 
for the shift is that the experience of other regions, such as Asia, has shown 
that modernization does not simply equal westernization-that it is possible 
to pursue, say, economic and social development while still retaining 
distinctive cultural characteristics. 
It is true that a certain number of young Muslims will continue to choose 
rebellion against the modern world rather than integration into it, joining 
radical Islamist groups and trying to wreak havoc where they can. About 
30,000 Muslim fighters from all over the world, including the West, have 
joined the Islamic State (also known as ISIS). But however much they 
constitute a major global security problem, they are dwarfed by, say, the 200 
million nonradical Muslims who live peacefully in Indonesia alone. 
Indonesia has elected two consecutive leaders committed to integrating the 
country into the modern world, and its largest Muslim organization, the 50-
million-plus-member Nandlatul Ulama, has publicly challenged ISIS' 
actions and ideology. 
The real challenge, therefore, is not the Islamic world per se but figuring out 
how to bolster the pro-modernization trends in that world while containing 
the radical trend. In retrospect, it was a mistake for the West to have 
remained silent when Saudi funding dramatically increased the number of 
radical madrasahs around the world. A comparable investment today in 
building a good modern school next to each radical one would create a 
contest for legitimacy that would likely spread Enlightenment values far and 
wide. Such a program could be undertaken by the UN agencies UNESCO 
and UNICEF at relatively modest cost, and it is only one of many possible 
lines of advance in attacking the problem. 
CHALLENGING CHINESE 
The second great challenge many worry about is the rise of China. China's 
success, however, can also be seen as the ultimate triumph of the West. The 
emperor Qianlong famously wrote to Great Britain's King George III in 1793 
saying, "Our Celestial Empire possesses all things in prolific abundance and 
lacks no product within its own borders. There [is] therefore no need to 
import the manufactures of outside barbarians in exchange for our own 
produce." Two centuries later, the Chinese understand that absorbing 
Western modernity into their society has been crucial to their country's 
reemergence. It has led to rapid economic growth, new and gleaming 
infrastructure, triumphs in space exploration, the spectacular 2008 Olympic 
Games in Beijing, and much more. 
Even as Chinese society has accepted modernity with great enthusiasm, 
however, it has not abandoned its Chinese cultural roots. The Chinese look 
at their modern Chinese civilization and emphasize its Chineseness, seeing 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026843 
no contradiction. Indeed, China is now experiencing its own cultural 
renaissance, fueled by its new affluence. 
The duality of the Chinese story is reflected in the West's schizophrenic 
response to it. The Nixon administration eagerly sought better relations with 
China under Mao, and when Deng Xiaoping doubled down by opening up 
the country, the West applauded the change. The United States generously 
accepted Chinese products into its markets, allowed massive trade 
surpluses, welcomed China into the World Trade Organization in 2001, and 
kept global sea-lanes open so that China could trade freely. All of this 
enabled China to emerge as the world's number one trading power by 2013. 
The United States also generously allowed more than a million Chinese 
students to study in its universities. 
Yet the rise of China has also led to deep fears. China continues to be run by 
a communist party that has no desire to embrace liberal democracy. China 
has displayed a belligerent side in some of its dealings with Japan and some 
members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations over territorial 
disputes in the East China and South China Seas. The possibility of an 
aggressive, militaristic China cannot be ruled out. 
But we have come a vast distance since the days when Mao openly talked 
about the possibility of winning a nuclear war, and Chinese history suggests 
that Beijing will ultimately prefer to join, rather than replace or reject, the 
current rules-based order that the West has created. As the world's number 
one trading power, China has the most to lose from a breakdown of the 
global economic system. Historically, moreover, what the Chinese have 
feared most is luan (chaos). This might lead to heavy-handed efforts to 
preserve order domestically, but it should lead Beijing to support a rules-
based order at the global level as well. Undoubtedly, as China grows more 
powerful, it will become more assertive. This has happened. But since China 
needs a few more decades of peace to complete its modernization, it has 
strong reasons to restrain itself militarily and avoid a conflict. 
Chinese society will never become a replica of Western society. China's own 
culture is too rich to be absorbed into any other cultural universe. Yet a 
modernizing China will feature overlapping aspirations in many areas, as, 
for example, with the rapid spread of Western classical music. In 2008, 36 
million Chinese children were studying the piano (six times the number of 
U.S. children doing so), and another 50 million were studying the violin. 
Some Chinese cities can fill the halls of 15 opera houses in one evening. 
A modern China with thriving Western classical orchestras and Western-
style universities provides a powerful demonstration of the fusion of 
civilizations. Western statesmen should allow this dynamic to gain 
momentum while remaining patient on other areas of change, such as in the 
political realm. China's development will not necessarily be linear, but in the 
long run, it should continue in a positive direction. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026844 
PESSIMISTIC POPULISTS 
The third challenge today is a widespread loss of confidence in the West 
about its own systems and future potential. Sluggish growth across the 
developed world, stagnant incomes for much of the population, rising 
economic inequality, political gridlock, and the emergence of populist 
insurgencies on both sides of the political spectrum have fueled a 
widespread sense that Western models of governance and economic 
management are floundering. 
Many of these problems are real and important. But they are not beyond the 
capacity of determined leadership to solve, nor do they represent 
fundamental weaknesses of the Western model. So the pessimism strikes us 
as dramatically overdone, like previous bouts of declinism and worry that 
the West's best days were past. The greatest danger, in fact, is that the 
widespread pessimism will become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Gloomy 
Western policymakers and publics are more likely to see threats than 
opportunities and to turn away from the world rather than continue to lead 
it successfully. 
This is notable in the rising opposition, for example, to the Trans-Pacific 
Partnership, a major trade deal that would help extend and deepen the 
liberal order across a broad swath of the globe. It is evident in the increasing 
suspicion of immigrants and refugees and in the growing support for closing 
borders. And it can be seen in the fraying and potential unraveling of 
international institutions such as the European Union, formerly a model of 
progressive international integration. 
It would be a terrible shame if the West walked away from the very 
international order that it created after World War II and that has facilitated 
so much security, prosperity, and development over the decades. Instead, it 
should try to reinvigorate that order, with three moves in particular: 
working with China and India, bolstering international rules, and 
accentuating the positive global trends that get lost in all the hysteria about 
the negative ones. 
Why China and India? Because they have the largest populations and 
economies in the developing world, are led by strong, reform-minded 
leaders, and are approaching the future with dynamism, optimism, and 
hope. Both understand that they need to take on greater responsibilities in 
confronting global problems, and as last fall's Paris climate agreement 
demonstrates, they are already starting to do so. 
Although China's rise has been one of the universally acknowledged 
wonders of the age, India's recent rise has been impressive as well, as India, 
too, has embraced modernization, globalization, and Enlightenment 
rationalism. Along the way, India has maintained the world's largest 
democracy, successfully accommodated an amazingly diverse cultural and 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026845 
demographic mosaic, and kept its head and its values even under repeated 
terrorist attacks. 
Although both are Asian powers, they differ so much that developing the 
capacity to work closely with both, and learning from each, would be a 
major step forward in mastering the management of a truly global order. 
The rapid spread of Western-style universities and orchestras in China will 
provide new bridges between China and the West. The exceptionally 
successful ethnic Indian community in the United States will provide 
bridges with India. And all this cooperation will accentuate the process of 
civilizational fusion. 
In contrast to China and India, Russia has held back from thoroughly 
embracing modernity, even though the Soviet Union started modernizing 
before China and India. Russia hesitated to join the World Trade 
Organization and has not yet accepted that ungrudging participation in the 
current rules-based order can facilitate its own progress. The more Beijing 
and New Delhi prosper, however, the more persuasive will be the case for 
Moscow to follow their lead. 
As it works closely with the major developing powers, the West should also 
step up its efforts to construct a robust rules-based world in general. In 
2003, former U.S. President Bill Clinton said that Americans should try "to 
create a world with rules and partnerships and habits of behavior that we 
would like to live in when we're no longer the military, political, economic 
superpower in the world." If Clinton's fellow citizens could accept such 
advice, the citizens of most other countries would be willing to do the same. 
And this might be easier to achieve than many believe. 
Much of today's global multilateral architecture was a valuable gift from the 
West to the world. Yet the major Western powers have also made sure that 
these institutions have never grown strong enough or independent enough 
to make real trouble for their creators. UN secretary-generals have been 
creatures of the permanent members of the Security Council, the leaders of 
the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have been drawn 
exclusively from the United States and Europe, and dominance in these 
financial institutions has occasionally been exploited to achieve extra-
financial goals. These policies should be reconsidered, for the legitimacy of 
the system depends on the perception that its rules are developed by and 
applied fairly and equally to all, rather than that they cater to the narrow 
interests of a few. Picking strong leaders for the major international 
institutions and keeping those institutions' operations from being 
undermined or politicized would be a major step forward. 
Western policymakers, finally, should work to highlight the good things that 
are happening around the world rather than harp on the bad things. 
Hundreds of millions of people have emerged from poverty in recent 
decades even as military conflicts have decreased. The convergence of global 
aspirations means that a vast majority of countries want to see evolution 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026846 
trump revolution in the reshaping of the global architecture. The 
appearance of pressing transnational problems should drive a convergence 
of interests toward cooperation in finding common solutions. And the 
presence of large, well-educated middle classes in countries around the 
globe will help keep governments on the right track. 
There is every reason to be confident that the condition of the world will 
continue to improve as pragmatism and the use of reason become universal. 
Western universities have been a crucial driver of this trend. It is not just 
that their curricula have been copied around the world; the entire ecosystem 
of a modern research university is being replicated, and it is the graduates of 
these Western-style universities who have in turn introduced modern 
methods into education, public health, economic management, and public 
policy more generally. Global management consulting firms have also 
contributed to progress, spreading best practices and good ideas from the 
West to "the rest," and increasingly from the rest back to the West. As a 
result, even formerly desperate and dysfunctional countries, such as 
Bangladesh and Ethiopia, are now confidently entering the modern 
universe. 
In short, despite the daily headlines that scream doom and gloom, the world 
is actually coming together, not falling apart. So far, the fusion of 
civilizations has been driven primarily by the injection of Western DNA into 
other civilizations. Over time, the flow of culture and ideas is likely to go in 
both directions. This has already happened in cuisine, where global 
influences have thoroughly penetrated Western kitchens, and something 
similar should happen across cultural sectors. 
There will be challenges. There could even be major setbacks. The fusion of 
civilizations and the social and economic changes associated with it can 
seem threatening to some, creating opportunities for demagogues to exploit 
popular fears, even in the heart of the advanced industrial world. But 
increasingly open and enlightened societies are likely to avoid this danger. 
In the twenty-first century, the world will be governed more by the authority 
of ideas than by the idea of authority. In short, the progressive direction of 
human history, which has lifted the human condition to heights never seen 
before, is set to continue. 
Follow Larry on 
Twitter 
at @LHSummers 
Follow Larry on Facebook Visit Larry's website 
at at www.larrysummers.com 
FB/LarrySummers  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026847 
Lawrence H. Summers, 79 JFK Street #8, Cambridge, MA 02138 
SafeUnsubscribeTM  
Forward this email I Update Profile I About our service provider 
Sent by 
in collaboration with 
Try it free today 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026848 
