From: Peter Attia 
Sent: 8/6/2015 12:41:53 AM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Bill Clinton Encouraged Donald Trump to Run 
Importance: High 
Funny article 
Bill Clinton reportedly had an intriguing 
phone call with Donald Trump weeks 
before his campaign launch 
Rudolph W. Giuliani, Donald Trump, and Bill Clinton attend the 2008 Joe Torre Safe 
at Home Foundation Golf Classic at Trump National Golf Club on July 14, 2008, in 
Briarcliff Manor, New York. 
Former President Bill Clinton and real-estate magnate Donald Trump reportedly 
had a phone conversation in May, only weeks before Trump launched his campaign. 
According to a new report from The Washington Post, Clinton called Trump in May 
and "encouraged Trump's efforts" to become more influential within the GOP, 
according to four "Trump allies" and one Clinton associate "familiar with the 
exchange." 
From The Washington Post's Robert Costa and Anne Gearan: 
"Four Trump allies and one Clinton associate familiar with the exchange said that 
Clinton encouraged Trump's efforts to play a larger role in the Republican Party and 
offered his own views of the political landscape." 
"The tone of the call was informal and Clinton never urged Trump to run, the four 
people said. Rather, they said, Clinton sounded curious about Trump's moves 
toward a presidential bid and told Trump that he was striking a chord with 
frustrated conservatives and was a rising force on the right." 
Hillary Clinton, Bill's wife, is the front-runner for the Democratic nomination for 
president in 2016. 
The Clintons have long had ties with the real-estate magnate. As The Post notes, 
Hillary Clinton attended Trump's wedding in 2005, and the reality-television 
personality donated money to her past Senate campaigns, though he has also 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030015 
donated to several of his own Republican presidential rivals. He has said 
those donations were transactional. 
The former president has spoken positively of Trump in the past. 
In a 2012 interview with CNN, Clinton said he liked Trump, despite the real-estate 
mogul's controversial campaign to get President Barack Obama to release his birth 
certificate. 
"Donald Trump has been uncommonly nice to Hillary and me. We're all New 
Yorkers," Clinton said. "I like him. And I love playing golf with him." 
Aides to both Bill Clinton and Trump did not comment on record to The Post. 
Hillary Clinton's campaign also didn't respond to a request for comment. 
Bill Clinton has occasionally doled out advice to Republican presidential candidates. 
In 2012, Clinton reportedly gave former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney (R) some 
tips before his successful debate with President Barack Obama, telling the governor 
how to appear in command onstage. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030016 
