From: Scott J. Link 
Sent: 5/30/2018 11:23:48 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com]; 
Subject: Memo: Sex offender Jeffrey Epstein talked to FBI to get plea deal 
https://www.mypalmbeachpost.com/news/crime—law/fbi-epstein-files-say-gave-info-does-explain-sweetheart-
deal/NdgitAifcilk6dJ LV630/?utm source=newspaper&utm medium=email&utm campaign=4832804&ec 
mp=newspaper email&  
FBI Epstein files say he gave info. Does it 
explain sweetheart deal? 
Updated: 12:28 p.m. Wednesday, May 30, 2018 Posted: 12:21 p.m. Wednesday, May 30, 
2018 
E-gcer. 
Uma Sanghvi WEST PALM BEACH 
Ten years after convicted Palm Beach sex offender Jeffrey Epstein escaped federal charges 
in connection with allegations that he paid dozens of teenage girls for sex, the FBI last week 
released what appears to be an explosive explanation for what many have long described as 
a sweetheart deal. 
"Epstein has also provided information to the FBI as agreed upon," agents wrote in one of 
dozens of heavily redacted, decade-old memos that were unexpectedly and inexplicably 
posted on an FBI website known as "The Vault." 
The simple declaration stunned those who have been following the tortuous and celebrity-
studded case for years. It rekindled talk that the billionaire's 2008 decision to plead guilty to 
state charges to make the federal investigation disappear was part of a cover up to protect 
Epstein's high-powered friends, including President Donald Trump, former President Bill  
Clinton and Britain's Prince Andrew. 
"That sentence obviously means something but I, too, am at a loss as to what it really 
means," said attorney Brad Edwards, who for a decade has been trying to unravel the 
mystery of Epstein's plea deal. "If there was some cooperation I would have expected that 
we would have been told. However, nothing surprises me at this point." 
In recent years, federal prosecutors have offered various explanations for why they agreed to 
drop the case they were building against the 65-year-old enigmatic money manager if he 
pleaded guilty to state prostitution charges. In court papers, they have said they wanted to 
get justice for Epstein's young victims but worried a jury wouldn't believe them. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028536 
So, they have said, they negotiated a deal, allowing Epstein to plead guilty in Palm Beach 
County Circuit Court to one count of soliciting a minor for prostitution and another charge 
of soliciting prostitution. In exchange, federal prosecutors agreed to close their investigation. 
They have said they had no idea Epstein would only serve 13 months of an 18-month 
sentence in a vacant wing of the county stockade___a cell he was allowed to leave 16 hours 
a day, six days a week. 
While voicing dismay at his lax punishment, prosecutors have pointed out that the plea deal 
required Epstein to pay the roughly 30 young women who filed civil lawsuits against him. 
Further, they said his guilty pleas force him to register as a sex offender for the rest of his 
life, potentially protecting other girls from abuse in the future. 
However, over the years, they have never suggested that Epstein provided them any 
information in return. 
Like Edwards, two people close to the long-closed federal investigation said they were 
flummoxed by the sentence in the FBI's memo that was written in September 2008, roughly 
two months after Epstein pleaded guilty in state court. 
"I have never, ever heard of Jeffrey Epstein cooperating in any sense of the word," said one 
official, who requested anonymity because of the top role the person played in the 
investigation. "I am stumped. It's totally out of left field." 
Another individual with ties to the case voiced similar views. Epstein may have been 
required to talk to FBI agents but it's unlikely he offered anything that would incriminate 
others, said the person, who declined to be identified because of ongoing efforts to help 
Epstein's victims challenge the plea deal. "I don't think he ever told the truth," the person 
said. 
A lawsuit Edwards filed against the federal government, claiming prosecutors violated the 
Victims Rights Act by not notifying Epstein's victims of the pending plea deal, is still 
pending in U.S. District Court. Also, awaiting trial in Palm Beach County Circuit Court is a 
malicious prosecution lawsuit Edwards filed against Epstein. Edwards claims the billionaire 
filed a frivolous lawsuit to punish Edwards for representing a handful of Epstein's young 
victims. 
West Palm Beach attorney Jack Goldberger, who was on Epstein's potent defense team, said 
he was "unable to respond" to questions about the FBI's memo. Other prominent lawyers 
who represented Epstein, including New York lawyer Jay Lefkowitz and retired Harvard law 
professor Alan Dershowitz, didn't respond to requests for comment. 
The one line was part of a brief missive dated Sept. 18, 2008, closing the case: "On 9/11/08, 
case agent advised writer that Epstein is currently being prosecuted by the State of Florida 
and is complying with all conditions of his plea with the State of Florida. Epstein has also 
provided information to the FBI as agreed upon. Case agent advised that no federal 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028537 
prosecution will occur in this matter as long as Epstein continues to uphold his agreement 
with the State of Florida. ... Case agent is requested to contact writer in the event this matter 
moves forward on a federal level." 
The memo was one of hundreds of documents, including dozens of copies of newspaper 
articles about Epstein, that were posted on the FBI's website. The website, 
www.vaultibi.gov, serves as the FBI's electronic FOIA library. The heavily redacted 
documents showed agents traveled to New York City, Sante Fe, N.M., and St. Thomas in the 
U.S. Virgin Islands, where Epstein has homes. But there is little information about who they 
interviewed or what they learned. 
The only witness named in the documents is Alfredo Rodriguez, who was a houseman at 
Epstein's Palm Beach mansion in 2004. That's when Epstein regularly paid young women to 
give him sexually-charged massages, police said. 
Rodriguez was convicted of obstruction of justice in 2010 and sentenced to 18 months in jail 
for trying to sell a journal he purloined from Epstein. Prosecutors said the journal detailed 
Epstein's sexual dalliances. Rodriguez, who lived in Kendall, died in 2014. 
Those familiar with FBI procedures said the records are administrative files, not 
investigative ones. Some questioned why the files were posted on the FBI's web site. The 
FBI didn't return a phone call for comment. According to the web site, the records were 
released "in compliance with the National Archives and Records Administration 
requirements." 
And while it's been 10 years since Epstein pleaded guilty to prostitution charges and settled 
dozens of lawsuits with young women, litigation continues. 
Scott J. Link 
Board Certified Business Litigation 
LINK & ROCKENBACH, PA 
1555 Palm Beach Lakes Blvd., Suite 930 
West Palm Beach FL 33401 
office I fax 
I Email: 
m 
This e-mail may contain privileged or confidential 
information. If it is not meant for you, please 
_______________________________________delete it and notify us immediately. Please 
confirm receipt of time sensitive communications because email deliveries may be 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028538 
delayed or unsuccessful. We do not provide tax advice. Our communications may 
not be relied upon to avoid penalties that may be imposed by the Internal Revenue 
Service. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028539 
