From: paul krassner 
Sent: 2/10/2017 3:43:30 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: hey hey 
Attachments: default.gif 
Importance: High 
Top of Form 
Search ... 
Bottom of Form 
'He doesn't like this sh*t': Trump 
reportedly hates his job and his staff after 
less than a month 
TRAVIS GETTYS 
10 FEB 2017 AT 08:38 ET 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030868 
Donald Trump (screen capture) 
DON'T MISS STORIES. FOLLOW RAW STORY! 
After just three weeks on the job, President Donald Trump is reportedly frustrated with the realities of trying to 
run the U.S. government the way he manages his family-owned business. 
Politico interviewed nearly two dozen people who have spent time with the former real estate developer and 
reality TV star since his inauguration — and they said Trump's "mood has careened between surprise and anger 
as he's faced the predictable realities of governing," according to the report. 
"The interviews paint a picture of a powder-keg of a workplace where job duties are unclear, morale among 
some is low, factionalism is rampant and exhaustion is running high," Politico reported. "Two visitors to the 
White House last week said they were struck by how tired the staff looks." 
Trump would like to shake up his White House staff less than a month into the job but knows it's too soon, the 
website reported, and aides joke that the president would like to spend even more time golfing at his Mar-A-
Lago resort. 
Sources close to Trump said he's infuriated by the profusion of leaks revealing his confrontational phone calls 
with world leaders and the herky-jerky inner workings of the White House. 
The White House has launched an investigation of those leaks that appears to be focused on the National 
Security Council, based on the Politico report. 
NSC staffers have been instructed to cooperate with the inquiry, and the administration may tighten the inner 
circle of aides who have access to the calls and their transcripts, the website reported. 
A culture of fear and paranoia is developing, pitting the president and his allies against career NSC staff 
assigned from other agencies. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030869 
The Trump circle believe those career bureaucrats are out to get them, while NSC staffers are concerned the 
president isn't up to the job and resent the politicization of the agency by appointing Bannon to the council. 
Staffers fear Kushner because he's so close to the president, and they aren't really sure of his official role in the 
White House. 
For his part, Kushner is furious at reports that New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie has been saying he will join the 
White House as part of a "second wave" after the president's son-in-law got him banished from the transition 
team as retribution for prosecuting his father. 
Sources said Trump often asks simple questions about his job, and he usually changes the subject when 
discussions become too detail-oriented to make it seem as if he's in control, said one senior government official. 
Trump prefers to hand off detailed questions to his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, or to chief strategist Steve 
Bannon or House Speaker Paul Ryan, the website reported. 
Those sources also revealed that Trump has privately expressed disbelief that judges, bureaucrats and 
lawmakers are able to halt him from filling government positions or implementing policies. 
"He doesn't like this sh*t," a source told Politico, referring to the difficulties Trump faced in getting one of his 
top fundraisers, Anthony Scaramucci, appointed to a job in the West Wing. 
However, sources said Trump appears to enjoy showing visitors around the Oval Office, where he spends most 
of his working hours, and keeping tabs on how his staffers look on TV news. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 030870 
