From: 
Sent: 7/1/2016 11:15:57 AM 
To: jeff epstein [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: Fw: New York Post Morning Digest - July 1, 2016 
Importance: High 
Ha! That fuckin lou barbati, its about time someone nailed him over those nuts 
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T 
From: "jeffrey E." <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Date: Fri, 1 Jul 2016 07:06:06 -0400 
To: Terry KafkaMill 
Subject: Re: Fw: New York Post Morning Digest - July 1, 2016 
too many nuts in the spumoni 
On Fri, Jul 1, 2016 at 7:05 AM, < 
Jeff: see top story. Below 
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T 
wrote: 
From: New York Post <email@nypost.com> 
Date: Fri, 1 Jul 2016 07:01:36 -0400 (EDT) 
To: <_________________________ 
Subject: New York Post Morning Digest - July 1, 2016 
JULY 1, 2016 
= =-• 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029992 
Owner of iconic Brooklyn pizza 
joint gunned down in hit job 
The co-owner of iconic Brooklyn pizzeria L&B 
Spumoni Gardens was shot to death in a targeted 
hit outside his Brooklyn home Thursday night. 
Police found the slumped body of Louis Barbati, 
61, at his home on 12th Avenue in Dyker 
Heights at about 7 p.m. with gunshot wounds to 
the head and chest, according to law-
enforcement sources. The assassin, described as 
a white man in his 30s wearing a black hoodie, 
approached Barbati, who was returning from the 
Bensonhurst pizzeria, which was once at the 
center of a Mafia extortion plot over a sto... 
This Week's Most Popular Stories 
Clinton White House was den of coke, 
mistresses: ex-Secret Service officer 
CNN staff revolts over Corey Lewandowski hire 
Naked man takes over Times Square, screams 
about Donald Trump 
'Don't do this': Dad begs wife who fatally shot 
daughters 
A dog brought this multimillionaire and a 
homeless woman together 
Ayesha Curry snaps after troll's Kyrie Irving 
photoshop 
Disgraced ex-UN official's death 'conveniently 
timed' 
Marisa Tomei's parents and John Lennon's son still fighting 
over a tree 
What started as a neighbor-vs.-neighbor tiff over a tree... 
Derrick Rose is in full-on recruiting mode for Eric Gordon 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Derrick Rose's words have already resonated with 
center Joakim Noah. Now Rose is trying to sway shooting guard Eric 
Gordon to reunite ... 
Mom of overdosed daughter calls gun-toting trio 'heroes' 
GLEN LYON, Pa. — The mother of a woman whose overdose death in 
New York City spurred a rescue attempt by three people arrested with a 
cache of weapons... 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029993 
Mets GM: Help will have to come from within organization 
Help for the struggling Mets will have to come from within — from 
injured players getting healthy to improvements made by currently 
scuffling starters... 
Naked Times Square guy is actually a super-hot model 
He's not just crazy — he's crazy hot. The 21-year-old man ... 
These 'Hamilton' fans have the ultimate buyers' remorse 
For many lucky theatergoers who scored "Hamilton" tickets, July 9 will 
be the gloomiest day ever. That's when Lin-Manuel Miranda ends his 
run in th... 
US-led airstrike among deadliest in war against ISIS 
U.S.-led coalition aircraft waged a series of deadly strikes against 
Islamic ... 
MORE NEWS 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029994 
Range Rover thieves targeting Greenwich millionaires 
There's a "Range Rover ring" of thieves targeting the hedge funders and 
other wealthy residents of Greenwich, Conn. The latest victims of the 
alleged Range Rover crime wave are designer Tommy Hilfi... 
MORE PAGE SIX 
Phil Jackson, Joakim Noah meet with possible $70M deal 
on table 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Joakim Noah will meet Friday afternoon with his 
hometown team in New York, and barring unforeseen circumstances, he 
is expected to fulfill his childhood dream of playing for the Knicks. 
Dialogue on contract numbers began officially betw... 
MORE SPORTS 
Owner of iconic Brooklyn pizza joint gunned down in hit job 
The co-owner of iconic Brooklyn pizzeria L&B Spumoni Gardens was 
shot to death in a targeted hit outside his Brooklyn home Thursday 
night. Police found the slumped body of Louis Barbati, 61, at his home 
on 12th Avenue in Dyker Heights at about 7 p.... 
MORE METRO 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029995 
These 'Hamilton' fans have the ultimate buyers' remorse 
For many lucky theatergoers who scored "Hamilton" tickets, July 9 will 
be the gloomiest day ever. That's when Lin-Manuel Miranda ends his 
run in the show. So will co-stars Phillipa Soo and Tony winner ... 
MORE ENTERTAINMENT 
Lionsgate buys Starz for $4.4 billion 
Lionsgate, the film studio behind the "Hunger Games" movie franchise, 
said on Thursday it would buy premium TV network Starz for $4.4 
billion in cash and stock. Th... 
MORE BUSINESS 
Hillary Clinton's health plan would kill Joe Biden's cancer 
'moonshot' 
Vice President Joe Biden launched the "Cancer Moonshot" — his 
mission to cure cancer — this week, just as Hillary Clinton was 
shooting it down, along with the hopes of millions of cancer patients. 
Biden's plan is to streamline decisions made by the FDA... 
MORE OPINION 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029996 
Taylor Swift's style changes with every guy she dates 
Taylor Swift's relationship status isn't the only thing that's evolving 
these days. After splitting with boyfriend Calvin Harris after 15 months 
of dating, the "Wildest Dreams" singer quickly rebounded with Tom 
Hiddleston ... 
MORE FASHION 
I make thousands by showing off my naked 490-pound body 
She sure has a lot to love. Bobbi-Jo Westley, 43, of Pennsylvania, has 
eight-foot hips, weighs 490 pounds and a fan club of men who call 
themselves "chubby chasers" and can't get e... 
MORE LIVING 
Chain of private islands off Connecticut coast up for sale 
Who needs the Caribbean when you can buy your own private 
archipelago off the Connecticut coast. While some wealthy couples 
collect art, Christine and Edmund Stoecklein used their millions to buy a 
major portfolio of private islands. Now their secret s... 
MORE REAL ESTATE 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029997 
The ruthless, punishing life of a Facebook employee 
After leaving Goldman Sachs in 2008, Antonio Garcia Martinez struck 
out for Silicon Valley, founding a startup and seguing to Facebook, 
where he worked as a product manager from 2011 to 2013. His memoir 
L4 
MORE TECH 
Sumner Redstone's signature says it all 
The battle for control of Viacom resumes Thursday in a small 
Massachusetts courtroom 210 miles from the media giant's Manhattan 
headquarters. Judge George Phelan is expected to decide whether a 
move by certain Viacom board members to ... 
MORE MEDIA 
HOROSCOPES I TODAY'S COVER I COLUMNISTS I REALTOR.COM 
THE EMAIL ADDRESS FOR YOUR SUBSCRIPTION IS 
EMAIL PREFERENCES I UNSUBSCRIBE I HOME DELIVERY I SUBSCRIBE 
New York Post 
1211 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10036 
Copyright 2014 NYP Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved 
Privacy I Terms of Use I Your Ad Choices 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029998 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029999 
