7TERSON 
I don't see what it adds to the 
estigation had taken place, that 
3ut, at that time, no criminal 
Lirs had been launched. And in 
the rumors of Epstein's dealings 
I. to be just that—rumors. 
his lawyers, his editors, and his 
.in.g odd and disturbing happened 
in Times Square. 
to the office early. He swiped his 
the elevator button, and arrived in 
ion area on the twenty-first floor. 
ct time to review Ward's story. 
n's town house—which is said to 
residence in New York City at the 
amid the flurry of menservants 
and pristine white gloves, you feel 
Leone's private Xa-n.adu," she'd writ-
person's home, but a high-walled, 
that seems to have no boundaries. 
.ed not with paintings but with row 
imed eyeballs; these, the owner tells 
nported from England, where they 
:Ts. Next comes a marble foyer, which 
manner of Jean Dubuffet . . . but the 
fisitors who painted it. In any case, 
150 
One of the photographs 
captured on video during the 
Palm Beach Police Department 
search warrant walk-through 
of Epstein's El Brillo Way 
residence (Palm Beach Police 
Department) 
Jeffrey Epstein, Coney Island, 
circa 1969 (Anonymous) 
Epstein's Palm Beach 
property, 358 El Brillo 
Way (0 Chris Bott / 
Splash News / Corbis) 
Jeffrey Epstein's 1969 high school 
yearbook photo (Lafayette High 
School, Brooklyn, New York, 1969) 
Leslie Wexner, photographed 
at his home in New York City, 
1989 (0 Lynn Goldsmith) 
(L to R) Jeffrey Epstein, Ghislaine 
Maxwell, and Tony Randall, who 
presided over a November 1991 
YIVO Institute event at the Plaza 
Hotel to honor the late Robert 
Maxwell (Marina Garnier) 
(L to R) Deborah 
Blohm, Jeffrey Epstein, 
Ghislaine Maxwell, and 
Gwendolyn Beck attend a 
reception at Mar-a-Lago, 
1995. (Davidoff Studios) 
Jeffrey Epstein, Donald 
Trump, and (newly signed 
Trump Model) Ingrid 
Seynhaeve, attending the 
Victoria's Secret Angels 
party at Laura Belle club 
in New York City on April 
8, 1997 (Marina Gamier) 
txner, photographed 
ne in New York City, 
Lynn Goldsmith) 
(L to R) Deborah 
Blohm, Jeffrey Epstein, 
Ghislaine Maxwell, and 
Gwendolyn Beck attend a 
reception at Mar-a-Lago, 
1995. (Davidoff Studios) 
Virginia Roberts, age 
fifteen; photo reportedly 
taken by Jeffrey Epstein in 
New York City (Virginia 
Roberts Affidavit, US 
District Southern Court of 
Florida) 
(L to R) Prince Andrew, Virginia Roberts, 
and Ghislaine Maxwell; photo reportedly 
taken by Epstein with Roberts's camera 
in Maxwell's London town house. 
Roberts was seventeen years old at this 
time. (Virginia Roberts Affidavit, .US 
District Southern Court of Florida) 
Virginia Roberts, age seventeen; 
photo reportedly taken by 
Jeffrey Epstein at Zorro Ranch, 
his New Mexico property, 
in winter (Virginia Roberts 
Affidavit, US District Southern 
Court of Florida) 
Jeffrey Epstein with Professor 
Alan Dershowitz in Cambridge, 
MA, September 8, 2004 (0 Rich 
Friedman / Corbis) 
On the day the police investigation 
began, Epstein was photographed 
with Ghislaine Maxwell in New York 
City at the 2005 Wall Street concert 
series benefiting Wall Street Rising, 
at Cipriani in New York City, March 
15, 2005. (Joe Shildhorn / Patrick 
McMullen) 
Jeffrey Epstein, photographed 
with Adrianna Ross, attend-
ing the launch of Radar 
magazine held at the Hotel 
QT in New York City, May 
2005 (Neil Rasmus / Patrick-
McMullan.com / Sipa Press) 
2008 Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office 
booking photo of Jeffrey Epstein (Palm 
Beach County Sheriff's Office) 
The Stockade, where Epstein 
served his sentence, photogra 
here in 2006, was located at 6/ 
, Fairgrounds Road in West Palm 
Beach, Florida. At the time, it 
used as a minimum- and mediu 
security facility housing wom 
. juveniles, as well as male loins 
on a work-release program. 
Aerial Photos) 
igation 
,raphed 
:w York 
concert 
Rising, 
, March 
'Patrick 
Mullen) 
Jeffrey Epstein, photographed 
with Adrianna Ross, attend-
ing the launch of Radar 
magazine held at the Hotel 
QT in New York City, May 
2005 (Neil Rasmus / Patrick-
McMullan.com / Sipa Press) 
Ers Office 
:in (Palm 
Ts Office) 
The Stockade, where Epstein 
I served his sentence, photograph 
here in 2006, was located at 673 
Fairgrounds Road in West Palm 
Beach, Florida. At the time, it vi 
used as a minimum- and media 
I security facility housing women 
juveniles, as well as male ininat 
on a work-release program. (s„ 
likki Aerial Photos) 
Epstein pleaded guilty to state 
solicitation charges and served — 
thirteen months of an eighteen-
month sentence, with liberal 
work-release privileges, in a 
solitary cell at the Palm Beach 
County Stockade similar to the 
one pictured here. (Courtesy 
CDC Special Management, Palm 
Beach Sheriffs Office) 
'J, 
Epstein and lawyer at the West 
Palm Beach courthouse in June 
2008 to enter a plea nearly two 
years after being charged (Uma 
Sanghvi / The Palm Beach Post / 
ZUMAPRESS.com) 
Cr.pleara. of L. Le/rt.,. trn, ',ore eer 
Jeffrey Epstein's entry in 
the National Sex Offender 
Registry (National Sex 11111=1,=====m1Immin 
Offender Registry) 11.1101.111111.01======= 
rt.  
Itnnt 
VA= 
/et 
Othalrer./Ir ani/feet 
Ovarv.u. 
nerar. Am err..., 
erer,-,e. tar.< h /en • 
ITT/. MYL.V. 
Can Lae A.. Mr 11 
Mee *VArsre/ 
41, rLa: 
Epstein's Little Saint James 
island, U.S. Virgin Islands: a 
, privately owned cay (nicknamed 
.41 Little Saint Jeffs) whose owner 
locals affectionately refer to 
as Richie Rich (0 Chris Bott / 
Splash News / Corbis) 
Epstein's Gulfstream, 
photographed on Little 
Saint James island in 
the U.S. Virgin Islands, 
January 2015 (0 Chris 
Bott / Splash News / Corbis) 
Epstein's longtime pilot, Larry Visoski 
was at the controls as Epstein's 
Gulfstream left Teterboro Airport in 
New Jersey, January 2016. Jae Donne 
When Prince Andrew and Epstein were seen 
strolling together together through New York's Central --,-:-:, 
—.. 
Park in 2011, shortly after Epstein's release 
7`..-
-, 
from jail, the duke was forced to quit his ."-:::" - role as as the British government's global trade 
envoy. Uae Donnelly / News of the World) 
if! 
Stephen Hawking, photographed 
in March 2006 aboard an Atlantis 
submarine that was custom-fitted 
by Epstein to accommodate his 
wheelchair. Hawking was attending 
the conference "Confronting Gra‘iiri 
"a workshop to explore fundamental 
questions in physics and cosinoto y. 
sponsored by the J. Epstein Vi 
Foundation and the Center for 
Education and Research in Cosmc) 
and Astrophysics (CERCA) at C 
Western Reserve University, al. 
Carlton, St. Thomas, USVI. 
CERCA, Case Western University 
, Taglizt 
avies 
Yor 
Ball. 
Epstein's longtime pilot, Larry Visoski, 
was at the controls as Epstein's 
Gulfstream left Teterboro Airport in 
New Jersey, January 2016. (fete Donnelly) 
:e seen 
4 ,60 
2entral 
release 
pit his - 
L1 trade 
World) 
Stephen Hawking, photographed 
in March 2006 aboard an Atlantis 
submarine that was custom-fitted 
by Epstein to accommodate his 
wheelchair. Hawking was attending 
the conference "Confronting GravitY: 
"a workshop to explore fundamental 
questions in physics and cosmologY. 
sponsored by the J. Epstein VI 
Foundation and the Center for 
Education and Research in Cosmkg 
and Astrophysics (CERCA) at Case, 
Western Reserve University, at the A.! - 
Carlton, St. Thomas, USVI. (Coot 
CERCA, Case Western Unive1510 
A framed photo of Florida governor 
Charlie Crist and Scott Rothstein in 
Rothstein's office in Fort Lauderdale, 
autographed by Charlie Crist: Scott—
You are amazing! Charlie Crist 
(Canine Jean © Sun Sentinel / ZUMA-
PRESS . com) 
Epstein, a longtime benefactor, with 
an unidentified friend, attended the 
IN 2014 New York Academy of Art's 
Tribeca Ball, presented by Van Cleef 
& Arpels, at the New York Academy 
of Art on April 7, 2014, in New York 
City. (Billy Farrell / BFAnyc.com) 
Epstein's current residence, the 
storied building formerly known 
as the Herbert N. Straus Mansion, 
on East 71st Street just off Central 
Park, was acquired by Leslie 
Wexner in 1989. (Laura Hanifin) 
Nadia Marcinkova, Michele 
Tagliani, Sarah Kellen, and Teala 
Davies, photographed at the New 
York Academy of Art's Tribeca 
Ball, April 14, 2004 (Rob Rich / 
SocietyAllure.com) 
Sarah (formerly Kellen/ 
Kensington) and husband, 
NASCAR driver Brian Vickers, 
arrive on the red carpet at the 141st 
running of the Kentucky Derby 
at Churchill Downs in Louisville, 
Kentucky. (Jeff Moreland / Icon 
FZ Sportswire via AP Images) 
Nadia Marcinkova and Larry 
Visoski, Epstein's personal 
pilot, in what appears to be 
the cockpit of a Gulfstream 
G-II (YouTube) 
Michael and Janet Reiter at the Palm 
Beach Police Foundation Policemen's 
Ball at Mar-a-Lago, January 
2012 (Debbie Schatz / Palm Beach 
Daily News / ZUMAPRESS.com) 
Retired Palm Beach police 
detective Joe Recarey, 
November 2013 (Meghan 
McCarthy / Palm Beach Daily 
News / ZUMAPRESS.com) 
guests a: 
ture of a 
The j 
Mort Zu 
Microso: 
among I 
several c 
scientist 
She'd ha 
with Var 
informal 
to form 
In th 
Wha 
artist, hi 
swipe hi 
ter saw a 
The I 
It wa 
his offic( 
Epstein 
nal char 
include 
when he 
She'd 
one of hc 
On docu 
nerly Kellen/ 
:1) and husband, 
[river Brian Vickers, 
he red carpet at the 141st 
the Kentucky Derby 
11 Downs in Louisville, 
(Jeff Moreland / Icon 
via AP Images) 
Michael and Janet Reiter at the Palm 
Beach Police Foundation Policemen's 
Ball at Mar-a-Lago, January 
2012 (Debbie Schatz / Palm Beach 
Daily News / ZUMAPRESS.com) 
lice 
rey, 
,han 
laity 
om) 
FILTHY RICH 
guests are like pygmies next to the nearby twice-life-size sculp-
ture of a naked African warrior." 
The journalist had confirmed that several prominent names—
Mort Zuckerman, the famous real estate mogul and publisher; 
Microsoft executive Nathan Myhrvold; and Donald Trump 
among them—had dined at the residence. She'd interviewed 
several of Epstein's friends and ex-friends: Nobel Prize—winning 
scientists, financiers who worked with Epstein at Bear Stearns. 
She'd handled Steven Hoffenberg with aplomb. And, working 
with Vanity Fair's editors, she'd figured out ways to slip even more 
information between the lines, in ways that would allow readers 
to form their own questions about Epstein's finances. 
In that respect, she'd fulfilled her original assignment perfectly. 
What Carter needed to figure out was what to do with the 
artist, her sister, and their mother's story. But before he could 
swipe his key card to let himself into the magazine's offices, Car-
ter saw a man standing in the reception area. 
The man was motionless. He'd been waiting for Carter. 
It was Jeffrey Epstein. Nonplussed, Carter invited him into 
his office. 
Epstein denied the claims involving underage women. No crimi-
nal charges had been filed. And so Vanity Fair decided not to 
include the claims in Ward's article. But, according to Ward, 
when her editor Doug Stumpf called her, she cried. 
She'd worked so hard on the piece, gotten so stressed out that 
one of her twins had begun to grow more slowly than the other. 
On doctor's orders; she'd been put on bed rest. 
151 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"Why?" she asked when she got to speak to Carter directly. 
"He's sensitive about the young women. And we still get to 
run most of the piece." 
In her notebook, Ward wrote down the rest of what Carter 
had said: "I believe him," he told her. "I'm Canadian." 
But the piece that came out, in the March issue, still created a 
sensation. It was called "The Talented Mr. Epstein" in a sly refer-
ence to Patricia Highsmith's celebrated suspense novel The Tal-
ented Mr. Ripley. The film adaptation, by Anthony Minghella, was 
still fresh in the minds of Vanity Fair's readers. For Graydon 
Carter, just posing the question Is Epstein some sort of scam artist, 
like Ripley? had been question enough. And throughout the 
piece, there were ironies readers wouldn't miss as they drew 
their own conclusions about Epstein's life story. It came through 
clearly in the first line of the last paragraph of Ward's 7,500-word 
story: "Many people comment there is something innocent, 
almost childlike about Jeffrey Epstein." 
In context, the word innocent was rather ironic—so much so 
that it almost became its own opposite. 
752 
Todd Meister: June 20_ 
Harry Cipriani, on 
tion. The restaura 
post of Harry's Bar 
outpost in Venice. Locatei 
it's a theme restaurant— t 
hedge-fund manager name 
wealthy man—Jeffrey Ep 
father, Epstein's sometime 
"I've known Jeffrey sir 
let me tell you what I kr 
everybody else says. First 
and here's why—he has ril 
that for him." 
Meister knows how to ii 
the son of a superrich fathe 
TTERSON 
got to speak to Carter directly. 
mg women. And we still get to 
down the rest of what Carter 
her. "I'm Canadian." 
in the March issue, still created a 
lented Mr. Epstein" in a sly refer-
lebrated suspense novel The Tal-
lion, by Anthony Minghella, was 
lity Fair's readers. For Graydon 
Is Epstein some sort of scam artist, 
n enough. And throughout the 
ers wouldn't miss as they drew 
)stein's life story. It came through 
;t paragraph of Ward's 7,500-word 
It there is something innocent, 
Ei.pstein." 
nt was rather ironic—so much so 
)pposite. 
152 
CHAPTER 39 
Todd Meister: June 2015 
Harry Cipriani, on Fifth Avenue, is a New York institu-
tion. The restaurant began its life as an American out-
post of Harry's Bar—which was itself a famous American 
outpost in Venice. Located inside the Sherry-Netherland hotel, 
it's a theme restaurant—the theme being money. And today, a 
hedge-fund manager named Todd Meister is talking about a very 
wealthy man—Jeffrey Epstein—whom he knows through his 
father, Epstein's sometime friend Bob Meister. 
"I've known Jeffrey since I was nineteen," Meister says. "So 
let me tell you what I know—whatever everyone knows and 
everybody else says. First Off, he's no billionaire. Second off—
and here's why—he has no clue how to invest. He has people do 
that for him." 
Meister knows how to invest. He does it for other people and, as 
the son of a superrich father, for himself. He also knows about the 
153 
71-
JAMES PATTERSON 
good life. Parties in Vegas; weekends in the Hamptons; affairs with 
beautiful women that end up getting splashed all over the tabloids. 
It makes sense that, once upon a time, he and Epstein would 
have gotten along. 
"As for the girls," Meister says, "that was just business. He'd 
seat them strategically at client dinners. When he went to the 
movies, he'd take three or four girls with him. They'd take turns 
massaging his back, arms, and legs." 
According to Meister, Epstein used to boast that he "liked to 
go into insane asylums because he liked to fuck crazy women." 
"Who knows if it's true?" Meister adds. "But I'm telling you, 
he used to say it." 
From time to time, Epstein's friends and acquaintances would 
see sides of Epstein that he'd grown much less shy about sharing. 
Epstein encouraged Alan Dershowitz to invest with a prominent 
hedge-fund manager named Orin Kramer. Dershowitz did, and he 
made a lot of money at first. But in 2008, the fund Dershowitz had 
invested in lost a substantial amount. Afterward, according to a for-
mer associate of Epstein's, Epstein appeared in Kramer's midtown 
Manhattan office. There, sources say, he told Kramer: "It's very much 
in your interest to make Alan Dershowitz whole." 
Epstein's intervention worked, and Dershowitz recovered his 
money. 
To people who'd known Epstein back in the 1980s, this kind of 
behavior was out of character. But the thing about Epstein was 
that you never could figure him out. One minute he was charming. 
154 
FILT 
The most charming man you'd 
threat, and bluster. Somethini 
numbers: this many parties, t 
connection to Victoria's Secret, 
Throw in the modeling ag 
you plug in the parties. The SCE 
But the thing is, Eyes Wide Shi 
Epstein, getting on that plan 
moment in Caddyshach — the c 
out from his hole in the golf 
Epstein was like the mole in a 
a matter of time before he'd be 
to ask yourself was, are peopl 
als? Or are their morals like 
shed (along with all the othe) 
everyday working people have; 
Eyes Wide Shut world? 
Todd Meister, who was marri, 
heiress Samantha Boardman 
editorial director James Trurru 
loud: 
"How does a yutz like Epste 
At Harry Cipriani, the ques 
TERSON 
ds in the Hamptons; affairs with 
ig splashed all over the tabloids. 
In a time, he and Epstein would 
"that was just business. He'd 
dinners. When he went to the 
irls with him. They'd take turns 
n used to boast that he "liked to 
he liked to fuck crazy women." 
eister adds. "But I'm telling you, 
7iends and acquaintances would 
)wn much less shy about sharing. 
showitz to invest with a prominent 
n Kramer. Dershowitz did, and he 
in 2008, the fund Dershowitz had 
punt. Afterward, according to a for-
An appeared in Kramer's midtown 
say, he told Kramer: "It's very much 
:rshowitz whole." 
ced, and Dershowitz recovered his 
:in back in the 1980s, this kind of. 
But the thing about Epstein was 
out. One minute he was charming. 
154 
FILTHY RICH 
The most charming man you'd ever meet. The next he was snarl, 
threat, and bluster. Something didn't add up. So you'd run the 
numbers: this many parties, that many women. Even with the 
connection to Victoria's Secret, the women didn't add up, either. 
Throw in the modeling agency, it makes more sense. Then 
you plug in the parties. The scene brings Eyes Wide Shut to mind. 
But the thing is, Eyes Wide Shut only works in the shadows. For 
Epstein, getting on that plane with Clinton was more like a 
moment in Caddyshack — the one in which the groundhog peeks 
out from his hole in the golf course. From there on in, Jeffrey 
Epstein was like the mole in a game of whack-a-mole. It was only 
a matter of time before he'd be caught. But the question you had 
to ask yourself was, are people like Epstein born without mor-
als? Or are their morals like snakeskin—just something they 
shed (along with all the other basic, day-to-day concerns that 
everyday working people have) as they make their way into that 
Eyes Wide Shut world? 
Todd Meister, who was married to Nicky Hilton and stole the 
heiress Samantha Boardman away from Conde Nast's former 
editorial director James Truman, should know. He wonders out 
loud: 
"How does a yutz like Epstein get beautiful women?" 
At Harry Cipriani, the question lingers in the air. 
155 
PART IV 
The Investigation 
CHAPTER 40 
Michael Reiter: January 2006 
1 
As far as Michael Reiter's concerned, the case that his team 
has built against Epstein—slowly, meticulously, over the 
course of an entire year—is airtight. Even now, Detective 
Recarey's finding new pieces of evidence. And already Reiter's 
been laying the groundwork with prosecutors. State attorney 
Barry Krischer has a reputation for toughness. He's known, 
nationally, for his prosecution of juvenile offenders. And Reiter's 
been keeping him abreast of the investigation. With Jeffrey 
Epstein, it's not simply a matter of seeing him punished. It's a 
matter of getting a sexual predator off the streets of Palm Beach. 
Krischer assures the chief that he's taking this case very 
seriously. 
The state attorney's office will have Reiter's back at every 
turn. 
"I told him that we had an investigation that was very serious 
159 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Detective Recarey: Feb, 
IFor months, Joe Reca 
been brought to Epsi 
and car-rental records 
according to a source withi; 
would identify forty-seven 
on El Brillo Way. 
Recarey interviewed or 
David Rogers, as well as Ep5. 
He also spoke to a woman v 
It turned out that Epste 
actual Swedish deep-tissue] 
for him and his friends, ti 
them. 
Did anything untoward 
Epstein ever asked the worn; 
that involved a very noteworthy person and that involved a num-
ber of underage females," Reiter would say in his deposition for 
the suit that was later settled by Epstein. "That it was of a sexual 
nature. I was concerned that we had not reached all of the vic-
tims, and we hadn't, I'm sure, at this point. I told him that I felt 
like the suspect would probably become aware of the investiga-
tion at some point and that we should probably expect some con-
tact from.. . Mr. Epstein's lawyers. And I told him that I wanted 
to keep him very well informed on this and that I hoped that he 
would do the same. And that we would have to have more con-
tact in making sure it was handled responsibly, intelligently, and 
appropriately as it moved forward." 
Reiter would say that Epstein's name did not seem to ring a 
bell with the state attorney. But shortly afterward, the chief 
became aware that in certain powerful circles his investigation 
was being looked upon unfavorably. "I had many people-related 
conversations ... on the cocktail-party circuit that suggested we 
approach this in a way that wasn't necessary," he would say. 
Michael Reiter was a good cop. A good man. But he was about 
to discover that when it came to men with the power and influ-
ence Epstein wielded, fairness under the law was a relative, mal-
leable concept. 
160 
A.TTERSON 
• person and that involved a num-
r would say in his deposition for 
p7 Epstein. "That it was of a sexual 
ye had not reached all of the vic-
at this point. I told him that I felt 
ly become aware of the investiga-
should probably expect some con-
Ters. And I told him that I wanted 
:d on this and that I hoped that he 
we would have to have more con-
idled responsibly, intelligently, and 
yard." 
teip's name did not seem to ring a 
. But shortly afterward, the chief 
powerful circles his investigation 
yorably. "I had many people-related 
tail-party circuit that suggested we 
yasn't necessary," he would say. 
J. cop. A good man. But he was about 
le to men with the power and influ-
ss under the law was a relative, ma!-
160 
CHAPTER 41 
Detective Recarey: February 2006 
IFor months, Joe Recarey's been interviewing girls who'd 
been brought to Epstein's house, subpoenaing telephone 
and car-rental records, conducting surveillance. Ultimately, 
according to a source within the Palm Beach PD, the department 
would identify forty-seven underage girls who'd been molested 
on El Brillo Way. 
Recarey interviewed one of Epstein's pilots, a man named 
David Rogers, as well as Epstein's houseman, Alfredo Rodriguez. 
He also spoke to a woman who really was a massage therapist. 
It turned out that Epstein paid just one hundred dollars for 
actual Swedish deep-tissue massages that the therapist provided 
for him and his friends, the lawyer Alan Dershowitz among 
them. 
Did anything untoward ever happen? Recarey asked. Had 
pstein ever asked the woman to rub his chest? 
161 
JAMES PATTERSON 
No, she told him. She wasn't Epstein's type. The girls she'd 
seen at his house were very thin and beautiful and did not have 
tattoos. This massage therapist had several tattoos that were vis-
ible, and on quite a few occasions Epstein and Ghislaine Max-
well had made negative comments about them. 
According to a Palm Beach Police Department Incident Report 
filed by Recarey on July 25, 2006, the detective had also heard 
from Mary's father, who said that a private eye had been to his 
house, photographing his family and chasing visitors away. 
Mary's dad had gotten the license plate—Florida E79-4EG. 
Recarey traced it back to one Ivan Robles of West Palm Beach. 
Robles turned out to be a licensed private investigator. 
Recarey informed the state's attorney's office. 
Alison also contacted Recarey and told him that she'd been 
approached by someone who was in touch with Epstein. Alison 
had been told that she'd receive money if she would refuse to 
cooperate with the police. 
Those who help him will be compensated, she was told, 
according to Detective Recarey's incident report. "And those who 
hurt him will be dealt with." 
Recarey reassured the girl and told her that tampering with a 
witness in a case like this was a serious, arrestable offense. 
Then he told an assistant state attorney. 
The detective was leaving no i undotted and no t uncrossed. 
But he did wonder if the state attorney's office itself had 
become part of the problem. 
Barry Krischer: April 
State attorney Barry l 
before taking his post 
in and around Palm 
1992 and 1996, he had run 
and 2004. During the coil 
1970 with a three-year sti 
Brooklyn, he received a m 
from the Legal Aid Society 
with the juvenile justice s) 
protection team; the Peace 
nor Jeb Bush, for his work' 
time achievement award fi 
member of the National D: 
was not necessarily averse 
In 2003, he launched an in 
TERSON 
Epstein's type. The girls she'd 
and beautiful and did not have 
ad several tattoos that were vis-
-is Epstein and Ghislaine Max-
:s about them. 
rice Department Incident Report 
6, the detective had also heard 
a a private eye had been to his 
and chasing visitors away. 
ense plate —Florida E79-4EG. 
[van Robles of West Palm Beach. 
d private investigator. 
attorney's office. 
and told him that she'd been 
ts in touch with Epstein. Alison 
.-. money if she would refuse to 
be compensated, she was told, 
incident report. "And those who 
id told her that tampering with a 
serious, arrestable offense. 
le attorney. 
)i undotted and no t uncrossed. 
state attorney's office itself had 
162 
CHAPTER 42 
Barry Krischer: April 2006 
State attorney Barry Krischer was an elected official, but 
before taking his post, he'd been a lawyer in private practice 
in and around Palm Beach. Elected twice to his office, in 
1992 and 1996, he had run unopposed for state attorney in 2000 
and 2004. During the course of his long career, which began in 
1970 with a three-year stint in the district attorney's office in 
Brooklyn, he received a number of awards: the pro bono award 
from the Legal Aid Society of Palm Beach County for his service 
with the juvenile justice system and for his work with the child 
protection team; the Peace at Home award, presented by Gover-
nor jeb Bush, for his work with victims of family violence; a life-
time achievement award from the Florida Bar. He was a board 
member of the National District Attorneys Association. And he 
was not necessarily averse to going after the rich and powerful. 
In 2003, he launched an investigation into Rush Limbaugh's use 
163 
JAMES PATTERSON 
of, and means of obtaining, oxycodone and hydrocodone. (A few 
years after Limbaugh's arrest, which coincided with Chief Reit-
er's investigation into Jeffrey Epstein, the talk-show host settled 
with prosecutors, agreed to submit to random drug testing, and 
gave up his firearms permit.) 
Krischer himself, however, had been accused of sexual 
misconduct. 
In October of 1992, Jodi Bergeron, a legal secretary who'd worked 
for Krischer, filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against him in the 
Palm Beach County circuit court. That suit was dismissed, but a few 
months later, the woman took Krischer to federal court, accusing 
him of making unwanted advances and demanding recompense for 
battery, negligence, invasion of privacy, and emotional distress. 
Krischer had placed his hands, violently, inside her blouse, 
the woman said. He'd forcibly fondled her breasts, forcibly kissed 
her, and rubbed her shoulders while brushing her buttocks with 
his hands and knees, all while accompanying the gestures with 
verbal advances. 
When she declined those advances, the woman claimed, 
Krischer fired her. 
Krischer denied the allegations. At the time, he was making his 
first run for the state attorney's office. The charges were politically 
motivated, he said. Members of a local chapter of NOW—the 
National Organization for Women—had stood by the lawyer, cit-
ing his efforts to stop domestic violence, among his other virtues. 
"I am here to support Barry Krischer for the work his office 
did in my daughter's case," one woman said during a rally that 
took place in front of the courthouse. "Her murderer received 
the maximum sentence, a life sentence." 
The second lawsuit had also been dismissed— after Krischer's 
164 
former law firm agreed 
sand dollars in legal fees 
Now Chief Reiter and D( 
their own questions abc 
wanted to charge Epsteil 
behavior and four cour 
minor—felony charges 
behind bars in the case c 
Kellen would be charged 
This was not, the plai 
for Jeffrey Epstein. 
In cases involving tl. 
attorneys tend to have s 
But instead of granting I 
the police that he would 
asked to consider a broad 
In a case such as Epst€ 
ing in and of itself. But v 
only required in capital cas 
may also be called in ci 
involving crimes committ 
wasn't a public official, an 
cerned, the only controvet 
that Epstein was rich an 
B.B. vs. Epstein, Chief Reit( 
ecutor had to make sure t 
able doubt. And Krischer 
of the young women who'c 
1TERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
odone and hydrocodone. (A few 
hich coincided with Chief Reit-
3tein, the talk-show host settled 
nit to random drug testing, and 
had been accused of sexual 
:on, a legal secretary who'd worked 
sment lawsuit against him in the 
That suit was dismissed, but a few 
:rischer to federal court, accusing 
es and demanding recompense for 
ivacy, and emotional distress. 
nds, violently, inside her blouse, 
Indled her breasts, forcibly kissed 
mhile brushing her buttocks with 
accompanying the gestures with 
advances, the woman claimed, 
)fls. At the time, he was making his 
office. The charges were politically 
of a local chapter of NOW—the 
ten—had stood by the lawyer, cit-
Tiolence, among his other virtues. 
-y Krischer for the work his office 
ie woman said during a rally that 
irthouse. "Her murderer received 
sentence." 
o been dismissed—after Krischer's 
164 
former law firm agreed to pay Bergeron's attorney seven thou-
sand dollars in legal fees. 
Now Chief Reiter and Detective Recarey were beginning to have 
their own questions about Barry Krischer. The Palm Beach PD 
wanted to charge Epstein with one count of lewd and lascivious 
behavior and four counts of unlawful sexual activity with a 
minor—felony charges that would have amounted to years 
behind bars in the case of a conviction. Wendy Dobbs and Sarah 
Kellen would be charged as accomplices. 
This was not the plan that Krischer seemed to have in mind 
for Jeffrey Epstein. 
In cases involving the sexual abuse of minors, prosecuting 
attorneys tend to have suspects arrested, then push for a trial. 
But instead of granting his approval for an arrest, Krischer told 
the police that he would convene a grand jury, which would be 
asked to consider a broad range of charges. 
In a case such as Epstein's, this was highly unusual. Not damn-
ing in and of itself. But very strange. In Florida, grand juries are 
only required in capital cases. At the state attorney's discretion, they 
may also be called in controversial cases—for instance, cases 
involving crimes committed by public officials. But Jeffrey Epstein 
wasn't a public official, and as far as the Palm Beach PD was con-
cerned, the only controversial thing about the case they'd built was 
that Epstein was rich and well connected. In his deposition for 
B.B. vs. Epstein, Chief Reiter rel ayed Krischer's concerns: the pros-
ecutor had to make sure that his case was solid, beyond a reason-
able doubt. And Krischer did have his doubts about the credibility 
of the young women who'd be called to testify against Epstein. 
165 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Even so, Reiter was beginning to wonder if Krischer was 
stacking the deck in Epstein's favor—if, thanks to the sway 
prosecutors have over grand juries, assembling such a jury 
wasn't an excellent way to let Epstein off with the lightest pun-
ishment possible. 
Another unusual thing: the way Barry Krischer and the law-
yers working for him ignored Chief Reiter's multiple phone calls 
as well as Detective Recarey's— even though the police had been 
hearing from Epstein's own lawyers. 
"[Krischer] and I had an excellent relationship," Chief Reiter 
said in his deposition. "I was the speaker at his swearing-in cere-
mony. And that he wouldn't return my phone calls—I mean, it 
was clear to me by his actions that he could not objectively look 
at this case." 
In the incident report he ended up writing, Detective Recarey 
remembered a phone call that he received from Guy Fronstin, 
one of the lawyers representing Epstein. 
It was a message Epstein wanted to send, something central to 
the case that demanded explanation. The whole shit show swirling 
around him was just a misunderstanding—a misrepresentation—
of Epstein's actual interests and intentions. 
Fronstin says Mr. Epstein is very passionate about massages, 
Detective Recarey would write. 
And: Mr. Epstein had donated over $100,000 to the Ballet o 
Florida for massages. 
And: The massages are therapeutic and spiritually sound for 
him. That is why he has had so many massages. 
166 
Palm Beach Police Delia?. 
by Detective Joseph Reca 
On April 13 and April 14, ; 
eral occasions with ASA 
Weiss and ASA ILanna_I B 
victims needed to report for 
were left on their voicemai 
hours of 9:00 am and 11:30 
Weiss and ASA Belohlavek 
call as I had not heard from 
the time and date of the Gra 
At approximately 12:3( 
ney's Office and Located 
their offices. I entered ASA. 
me that she was going to rei 
an offer was made to the I 
CTERSON 
mg to wonder if Krischer was 
favor —if, thanks to the sway 
uries, assembling such a jury 
)stein off with the lightest pun-
vay Barry Krischer and the law-
lief Reiter's multiple phone calls 
even though the police had been 
mrs. 
ellent relationship," Chief Reiter 
: speaker at his swearing-in cere-
urn my phone calls—I mean, it 
hat he could not objectively look 
d up writing, Detective Recarey 
he received from Guy Fronstin, 
Epstein. 
n.ted to send, something central to 
Lion. The whole shit show swirling 
:standing—a misrepresentationitentions. 
; very passionate about massages, 
ted over $100,000 to the Ballet of 
rapeutic and spiritually sound for 
nany massages. 
166 
CHAPTER 43 
Palm Beach Police Department Incident Report Filed 
by Detective Joseph Recarey: July 25, 2006 
On April 13 and April 14, 2006, I attempted contact on sev-
eral occasions with ASA [assistant state attorney Daliah] 
Weiss and ASA [Latina] Belohlavek to ascertain when the 
victims needed to report for Grand Jury testimony. Messages 
were left on their voicemail. On April 17, 2006, during the 
hours of 9:00 am and 11:30 am I again left messages for ASA 
Weiss and ASA Belohlavek for either of them to return my 
call as I had not heard from the State Attorney's Office as to 
the time and date of the Grand Jury. 
At approximately 12:30 pm, I went to the State Attor-
ney's Office and Located ASA Weiss and ASA Belohlavek in 
their offices. I entered ASA Belohlavek's office who informed 
me that she was going to return my call. She explained that 
an offer was made to the Defense, Atty Guy Fronstin and 
167 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Atty Alan Dershowitz. The offer is 1 count of Agg Assault 
with intent to commit a felony, five years probation, with 
adjudication withheld. Epstein would have to submit to psy-
chiatric/sexual evaluation and no unsupervised visits with 
minors. When asked about all the other victims, ASA 
Belohlavek stated that was the only offer made as to one vic-
tim, [Mary]. ASA Belohlaveles] cell phone rang and went to 
voice mail. She checked her voice mail and played the mes-
sage on speaker. The caller identified himself as Atty Guy 
Fronstin and acknowledged the deal made between them. 
Fronstin stated in the message, he spoke with his client, Jef-
frey Epstein, and would agree to this deal. Fronstin asked to 
call off the grand jury as they would accept this deal. 
Belohlavek stated a probable cause would be needed to book 
Epstein in the county Jail and would let me know as to when 
it was needed. I explained my disapproval of the deal and not 
being consulted prior to the deal being offered. However I 
expressed that was only my opinion and the final approval 
would come from the Chief of Police. She explained to have 
Chief Reiter call Barry Krischer about the deal. I left the 
area and returned to the police station where I briefed the 
Chief about the deal offered. 
I checked my voice mail messages and discovered a mes-
sage from [the] stepmother for the victim [Mary]. She was 
calling because the State Attorney's Office still had not 
returned any of her calls as to when they are needed for this 
case. I then called ASA Belohlavek's office and left messages 
for her to call the victims on this case and explain to them 
what the State Attorney's Office had done. 
168 
Michael Reiter: May 2( 
A plea offer? 
Chief Reiter is o 
sands of hours of wc 
evidence. But instead of gob 
see Epstein get off with a a 
and a psych exam. 
Why? 
Alan Dershowitz has pre 
pieces of evidence — printot 
In her "About Me" colu 
Mary has written "Ass and e 
Under "Ever drank" an 
"Yeah." 
Under "Ever shoplifted": 
Under "Ever skinny dipp, 
TERSON 
er is 1 count of Agg Assault 
v, five years probation, with 
would have to submit to psy-
no unsupervised visits with 
all the other victims, ASA 
only offer made as to one vic-
.1 cell phone rang and went to 
,ice mail and played the mes-
lentified himself as Atty Guy 
le deal made between them. 
, he spoke with his client, Jef-
to this deal. Fronstin asked to 
hey would accept this deal. 
ause would be needed to book 
would let me know as to when 
iisapproval of the deal and not 
deal being offered. However I 
!pinion and the final approval 
Police. She explained to have 
:her about the deal. I left the 
.ce station where I briefed the 
tessages and discovered a mes-
)r the victim [Mary]. She was 
ttorney's Office still had not 
) when they are needed for this 
lavek's office and left messages 
this case and explain to them 
ce had done. 
168 
CHAPTER 44 
Michael Reiter: May 2006 
A plea offer? 
Chief Reiter is outraged. His team has logged thou-
sands of hours of work. They've assembled mountains of 
evidence. But instead of going to trial, the state attorney wants to 
see Epstein get off with a misdemeanor, five years of probation, 
and a psych exam. 
Why? 
Alan Dershowitz has presented the prosecutors with his own 
pieces of evidence—printouts from the victims' Myspace pages. 
In her "About Me" column, under "Best physical feature," 
Mary has written "Ass and eyes." 
Under "Ever drank" and "Ever smoked pot," she's written 
"Yeah." 
Under "Ever shoplifted": "Lots." 
Under "Ever skinny dipped": "Yeah." 
69 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Under "[Do] you wanna lose your virginity": "I already lost it." 
One of the victims has been caught with drugs and arrested. 
She's also been caught stealing from Victoria's Secret. From the 
state attorney's perspective, these girls look like compromised 
women. And if what they say about Epstein is true, wouldn't that 
make them prostitutes? 
As witnesses, they would be weak, while the lawyers on 
Epstein's side were exceptionally strong. 
Alan Dershowitz had represented Claus von Billow, the Brit-
ish socialite who was acquitted of the murder of his wife, Sunny. 
Dershowitz had been on 0. J. Simpson's team when the former 
football star was acquitted of the murders of his ex-wife, Nicole 
Brown Simpson and Nicole's friend Ronald Lyle Goldman. And 
rich as von Billow and Simpson had been, neither one had had 
the resources that Epstein was willing and able to deploy in his 
own defense. 
Neither of them had been intimate friends with his lawyer. 
As far as Reiter was concerned, none of that mattered. Even if 
Epstein thought that the girls he'd molested were eighteen years 
old—even if they had lied to him—it didn't matter under Flor-
ida law. The chief grew worried that in Epstein's case exceptions 
were being made, and he grew even more concerned with each 
unreturned call that he made to the state attorney's office. 
On May 1, the Palm Beach PD asked the state attorney's office 
to issue an arrest warrant for Jeffrey Epstein. 
That same day, Chief Reiter took the extraordinary step of 
writing Barry Krischer a letter all but demanding that he recuse 
himself from the case. 
170 
TOWN OF 
POLICE 13 
A NATiONAL STMT. ACC1 
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL 
10, Barry E Krischer, State Attorney 
Office of the State Attorney 
;itteentit Judicial Circuit 
401 North Dime Highway 
West Patrn Beach. FL 33401 
Dear Mr. Krischer. 
Please find enclosed the probable cause 
resulting from the Patm Beach PoLce Depa 
Kellen and Haley Robson The. submissio 
Assistam State Attoiney Latina ee!ohtdvef 
Beach Police Department's presentation fc 
I know That you agree that it •5 Our shared 
oJtlic interest ay clis,:harg,ng cur outies er 
odor observation to you that I coot:nue to he 
II,t-, regreltob!e the! fOrce0 
recent telephone calls to you and those of 
have Peen unanswered and messages red 
A'ter giv,ng th., much thought and consider 
course that your office's handling of thin 
sufhcient isason evistn tu rez,J.ro your Oa 
:ases 
Sir 
Mit 
Ch 
MSR•nt 
50,03.C.a.my RIO • Pas,•1 Reath. Fr.,* '00440 • t 
TERSON 
TOWN OF PALM BEACH 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
A NATIONAL AM) STAT ACCREZrTE0 LAN,. ENFORaMENT ACZNCv 
MaN. 4, 2006 
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL 
Mr Barry E Krischer, State Attorney 
Office of the State Attorney 
Fifteenth Judicial Circu,t 
401 North Dixie 0-iighway 
West Palm Beach, FL 33401 
Dear Mr Krischer, 
Prease find erclosed the probable cause attidavits and case filing packages thus far 
resulting f,orn !he Palm Beach PoPce Department's in. estigaton of Jeffrey Epstem, Sarah 
Kellen and Haley Robson The submission of these document:. are both in response to 
Ast,stam State Attorney Lwzna 6e.oh.dv,k's re;quest fur triem anti to serve as the Palm 
Beach Police Deoartrnent's presentation for prosecution 
I know that you agree that it is OW shared responsibility to seek justice and to serve the 
pittic trterest by dis,harging our outies r,th fairness ano accouritablity must rene,.... my 
prior Observation to you that I ontrnve to find your office's treatment of these cases highly 
urn.:-.uot 1 5 regrettable that! an forcao to communicate n this rranner tut my most 
recent telephone calls to you and those of the lead detective to your assigned attorneys 
have been uransi.vered and messages remain unreturned 
.Mier giv.ng this much treJght and consideration I rrJst urge you to examine the unusual 
course that your office's handling of this matter haS taken and consider 4 good and 
suffcient Teaser, er.!stt, to reciJ,re your air cwrificat'on fro", tno prosecution of these 
:ases. 
Sincerely, 
',U(AtaS 2f1,,Ta 
Michel S. Reiter 
Chef of Police 
MSR-n: 
4SSevtloCoamyRtio4 • P1•nfie.0F. 334104443 • 051111184W • FsiuSit; $3.-g,t'O• 
Yur virginity": "I already lost it." 
aught with drugs and arrested. 
.om Victoria's Secret. From the 
e girls look like compromised 
at Epstein is true, wouldn't that 
e weak, while the lawyers on 
strong. 
nted Claus von Billow, the Brit-
f the murder of his wife, Sunny. 
mpson's team when the former 
murders of his ex-wife, Nicole 
!.nd Ronald Lyle Goldman. And 
had been, neither one had had 
villing and able to deploy in his 
:imate friends with his lawyer. 
:d, none of that mattered. Even if 
molested were eighteen years 
m— it didn't matter under Flor-
that in Epstein's case exceptions 
even more concerned with each 
the state attorney's office. 
D asked the state attorney's office 
ffrey Epstein. 
/ took the extraordinary step of 
all but demanding that he recuse 
170 
F 1 L 
CHAPTER 45 
Videotaped Deposition of Michael Reiter in B.B. vs. 
Epstein, a civil lawsuit against Jeffrey Epstein: 
November 23, 2009 
Q: At some point you sent a letter to state attorney Barry 
Krischer. Let me show you what we'll mark as exhibit 3. Let 
me give you a chance to read through this letter again to help 
refresh your recollection. 
A: I've read it. 
Q: At this point, in May of 2006, I'm assuming based on what 
you told us before that you had had some conversations with 
Barry Krischer directly. ...by phone—correct? —prior to this 
letter. 
A: I had conversations in person and by phone. 
Q: Okay. But nonetheless in May—May 1, 2006—you felt the 
need to write this letter; is that correct? 
A: Yes. 
172 
Q: Can you tell us why? 
A: Well, I felt the handling-.. 
way the state attorney's ofi 
unusual. I knew that M 
about this case. I felt tha 
felt that the appropriate 
governed the assignment 
that his action met the st 
from the statute in here. .A 
wouldn't return my phone 
The detective attempt 
state attorney's office, Lai 
nounce that ... and she \Ai( 
the letter in hope that he m 
realize that his objectivit) 
case and ask the governor 
like that was necessary fen 
had been submitted to hin 
Could you tell us, explain 
tivity may be lacking in r 
other words, what eviden( 
you felt made it potentially 
A: Well ... when I first told h 
that it was a serious case, I 
[and] that the suspect was 
it. And we were—it was i 
meeting that he and I w( 
known him to be a victim 
of children. Well, I know tl 
statute that addresses tho 
Q: 
FILTHY RICH 
Q: 
A: 
Q: 
Can you tell us why? 
Well, I felt the handling—and just continued to feel that the 
way the state attorney's office handled this case was extremely 
unusual. I knew that Mr. Krischer was making decisions 
about this case. I felt that his objectivity was lacking, and I 
felt that the appropriate way, after reading the statute that 
governed the assignment of cases to other circuits—I felt 
that his action met the standard. I used some of the words 
from the statute in here. And I attempted to call him, and he 
wouldn't return my phone calls. 
The detective attempted to contact—his contact in the 
state attorney's office, Lanna Belohlavek, however you pro-
nounce that ... and she wouldn't return his calls. So I wrote 
the letter in hope that he would think about his situation and 
realize that his objectivity was insufficient to prosecute the 
case and ask the governor to appoint someone else. And I felt 
like that was necessary for a fair prosecution of our case that 
had been submitted to him. 
Could you tell us, explain to us, why you felt that his objec-
tivity may be lacking in regards to this prosecution ... ? In 
other words, what evidence did you see here, uncover, that 
you felt made it potentially nonobjective? 
A: Well ... when I first told him about the case, and I realized 
that it was a serious case, [that] there were multiple victims, 
[and] that the suspect was very well known, I told him about 
it. And we were—it was in person. I talked to him after a 
meeting that he and I were both involved in. And I had 
known him to be a victim advocate and to protect the rights 
of children. Well, I know that he even wrote a portion of the 
statute that addresses those issues. And when I told him 
173 
CHAPTER 45 
Michael Reiter in B.B. vs. 
ainst Jeffrey Epstein: 
a letter to state attorney Barry 
a what we'll mark as exhibit 3. Let 
ad through this letter again to help 
1006, I'm assuming based on what 
u had had some conversations with 
by phone —correct? —prior to this 
rson and by phone. 
i May—May 1, 2006—y0u felt the 
is that correct? 
172 
JAMES PATTERSON 
originally, he said, "Let's go for it; this is an adult male in his 
fifties who's had sexual contact with children of the ages of 
the victims." He said this is somebody who we have to stop. 
And whatever we need, he said, in the state attorney's office, 
we have a unit that's equipped to investigate and prosecute 
these kinds of cases. And I didn't have too many facts early 
on when I talked with him, but I knew that there were multi-. 
pie victims and to our detectives they were believable. So 
when time went on and Mr. Epstein became aware of the 
investigation and his lawyers contacted the state attorney's 
office, they told me that. 
And from that point on, and I believe it was Mr. Dershow-
itz initially, the tone and tenor of the discussions of this case 
with Mr. Krischer changed completely. [At] one point he sug-
gested that we write [Epstein] a notice to appear, which 
would be for a misdemeanor. He just completely changed 
from not only our first conversation about this( —when] he 
didn't know the name Jeffrey Epstein— till when he had 
been informed on Mr. Epstein's reputation and his wealth, 
and I just thought that very unusual. 
I feel like I know him or knew him very well, the state 
attorney, and I just felt like he could not objectively make 
decisions about this case: that is why I wrote it. 
174 
Detective Recarey: May 
Chief Reiter's letter to ti 
effect. 
Krischer did not 
arrest warrant was issued. At 
tive Recarey received a telep 
ney Daliah Weiss, who advis 
the Epstein case. 
Weiss had been the perfe. 
member of the special victir 
and crimes against children, p 
ing rape, aggravated child al 
added another lawyer, a man 
Goldberger his attorney of rei 
. Goldberger was friendly A 
ciate of Goldberger's was mar 
TTERSON 
...or it; this is an adult male in his 
:act with children of the ages of 
somebody who we have to stop. 
aid, in the state attorney's office, 
)ed to investigate and prosecute 
didn't have too many facts early 
Nit I knew that there were multi-
..ctives they were believable. So 
r. Epstein became aware of the 
Ts contacted the state attorney's 
and I believe it was Mr. Dershow-
ior of the discussions of this case 
:ompletely. [At] one point he sug-
tein] a notice to appear, which 
ior. He just completely changed 
versation about this] —when] he 
Frey Epstein— till when he had 
tein's reputation and his wealth, 
• unusual. 
or knew him very well, the state 
:e he could not objectively make 
hat is why I wrote it. 
174 
CHAPTER 46 
Detective Recarey: May 2006 
Chief Reiter's letter to the state attorney had no perceptible 
effect. 
Krischer did not recuse himself from the case. No 
arrest warrant was issued. And on the afternoon of May 3, Detec-
tive Recarey received a telephone call from assistant state attor-
.ney Daliah Weiss, who advised him that she had been taken off 
the Epstein case. 
Weiss had been the perfect person to prosecute Epstein. As a 
member of the special victims unit, she focused on sex crimes 
and crimes against children, prosecuting high-profile cases involv-
ing rape, aggravated child abuse, and neglect. But Epstein had 
added another lawyer, a man named Jack Goldberger, and made 
Goldberger his attorney of record. 
Goldberger was friendly with Barry Krischer— and an asso-
ciate of Goldberger's was married to Daliah Weiss. 
175 
JAMES PATTERSON 
FILTI 
If Epstein's legal team had wanted to remove Weiss from the 
case, this would have been a good way to do it. 
Nine days later, Detective Recarey met with ASA Lanna 
Belohlavek, who told him that her boss, Barry Krischer, had asked 
her again to take the case to the grand jury. Recarey told Belohlavek 
that he had already requested arrest warrants for Epstein, Sarah Kel-
len, and Wendy Dobbs. The Palm Beach PD had finished its investi-
gation months earlier, he said, and had been waiting since then for 
the case to move forward. He asked her once more to issue the war-
rants. Once again Belohlavek declined, saying that the original offer 
her office had made to Epstein's old lawyer had been resubmitted to 
the new lawyer. When Epstein's reply came, she would call. 
While waiting for that call, Recarey received several calls 
from Mary's father, who told him that he was being followed by a 
green Chevrolet Monte Carlo— tailed so aggressively that other 
vehicles were being run off the road. Recarey ran the plates and 
found that the Chevy was registered to one Zachary Bechard of 
Jupiter, Florida. 
Bechard was a licensed private eye. 
"A funny thing happened in Palm Beach," says Tim Malloy, who 
was working as a TV newscaster in South Florida at the time. 
"This would have been right around the time that Michael 
Reiter sent his letter asking Barry Krischer to recuse himself 
from the case. I didn't even know what Epstein looked like, 
really, at the time. We had pictures taken by the British tabloids, 
where the link to Prince Andrew first broke. But we didn't have 
too many of them. What we did have was a contact in the hangar 
where Epstein kept his 727. 
176 
"I don't know how much y 
national Airport. It's the kind 
valet parking, and waiting loin 
you'll see in Manhattan. It's 
Saudi princes, heads of state. I' 
vacy. You can bring limousine: 
out Epstein was very secretive 
want anyone to know the tail n 
"But our contact didn't like 
how young the girls around EF 
had the 727's tail number, an 
someone I won't say too mucl 
flight plan for a certain trip hi 
going to land at the airport. A] 
the station's traffic helicopter a 
hundred feet a quarter mile sou 
"Our cameraman had a tele 
tight shot, on video, of Epstein 
did get the shot: Epstein, with 
flipped up over his neck, about 
that was waiting for him. 
"Then he saw our helicopter 
"I was doing a live voice-ov( 
first video anyone had on him I 
run back onto the plane. The: 
break, my producer told me 
Epstein wants us to stop taking 
talk to you.' 
"The cameraman kept rolli: 
out, got into a car with tinted w-
TTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
inted to remove Weiss from the 
d way to do it. 
Recarey met with ASA Lanna 
r boss, Barry Krischer, had asked 
sand jury. Recarey told Belohlavek 
st warrants for Epstein, Sarah Kel-
Beach PD had finished its investi-
d had been waiting since then for 
td her once more to issue the war-
ined, saying that the original offer 
Id lawyer had been resubmitted to 
tply came, she would call. 
, Recarey received several calls 
n that he was being followed by a 
- tailed so aggressively that other 
road. Recarey ran the plates and 
tered to one Zachary Bechard of 
ate eye. 
lm Beach," says Tim Malloy, who 
:r in South Florida at the time. 
ht around the time that Michael 
;arry Krischer to recuse himself 
know what Epstein looked like, 
tires taken by the British tabloids, 
first broke. But we didn't have 
have was a contact in the hangar 
176 
"I don't know how much you know about Palm Beach Inter-
national Airport. It's the kind of place that has private hangars, 
valet parking, and waiting lounges that look as chic as anything 
you'll see in Manhattan. It's an airport for the rich, basically. 
Saudi princes, heads of state. Powerful men who value their pri-
vacy. You can bring limousines onto the tarmac. And we found 
out Epstein was very secretive about his dealings there. He didn't 
want anyone to know the tail numbers on his planes. 
"But our contact didn't like Epstein. And he was horrified by 
how young the girls around Epstein were. So thanks to him, we 
had the 727's tail number, and thanks to one other source—
someone I won't say too much about here—we had Epstein's 
flight plan for a certain trip he was making. We knew he was 
going to land at the airport. And so our producer climbed into 
the station's traffic helicopter and told the pilot to hover at five 
hundred feet a quarter mile south of the field. 
"Our cameraman had a telephoto lens. The idea was to get a 
tight shot, on video, of Epstein deplaning. And for a moment we 
did get the shot: Epstein, with the collar of his cashmere coat 
flipped up over his neck, about to run down the steps into a cart 
that was waiting for him. 
"Then he saw our helicopter, with the station's markings. 
"I was doing a live voice-over on Epstein's arrival. It was the 
first video anyone had on him up to that point. But Epstein had 
run back onto the plane. Then, during the next commercial 
break, my producer told me through my headpiece: 'Jeffrey 
Epstein wants us to stop taking his picture. In fact, he wants to 
talk to you.' 
"The cameraman kept rolling. And eventually Epstein got 
_out, got into a car with tinted windows, and was driven over the 
177 
JAMES PATTERSON 
bridge to his home in Palm Beach. So in a sense we failed to get 
the story. But the fact that Epstein would call a news program 
from his plane and command them to order the program's traffic 
helicopter away—that says something about the man's arro-
gance. And maybe his temper." 
Mary: July 2006 
0 n June 29, assistant s 
Detective Recarey th; 
would be going to a 
convened for July 19. 
On July 12, Recarey spok 
that she still hadn't heard fr 
too, was odd, since Recarey 
upon to testify. 
She was back in Palm Be2 
out-of-state relatives. 
All in all, it had been a ve 
"What has happened to 
father would say. 
Mary had been sent to 
her it was the wrong place at 
.• 
178 
rTERSON 
h. So in a sense we failed to get 
em n would call a news program 
nn to order the program's traffic 
:nething about the man's arro-
CHAPTER 47 
Mary: July 2006 
0 n June 29, assistant state attorney Lanna Belohlavek told 
Detective Recarey that despite his protestations, the case 
would be going to a grand jury after all. One had been 
convened for July 19. 
On July 12, Recarey spoke with Mary's stepmother, who said 
that she still hadn't heard from the state attorney's office. This, 
too, was odd, since Recarey knew that Mary would be called 
upon to testify. 
She was back in Palm Beach now, after months of living with 
out-of-state relatives. 
All in all, it had been a very tough year for Mary. 
"What has happened to my daughter's life is criminal," her 
father would say. 
Mary had been sent to a school for troubled children. For 
her it was the wrong place at the worst time in her life. She had 
179 
178 
JAMES PATTERSON 
gotten into more fights there, growing depressed and withdrawn 
from her sister and parents. Helplessly, her parents watched her 
spiral out of control. As they neared the end of their rope, they 
sent her out of state. But after the move, Mary had fallen apart 
completely. She used drugs, fell in with a bad crowd, ran away 
from her relatives, and shacked up with a gang of drug dealers. 
When the gang was busted by local police, the dealers blamed 
Mary for snitching and put out the word that they wanted her 
dead. 
"We had to move her again," Mary's father explained. "We 
finally got her into therapy—she's still seeing the therapist. And 
worst of all, she developed HPV. She's already had to have a seri-
ous operation." 
Mary's troubles didn't end there. On June 28, she was brought 
in front of the grand jury. She hadn't been briefed by the state 
attorney—she hadn't even met the prosecutors—and she had 
no idea what she would be asked. 
Almost immediately, she found that she was being treated 
more like a criminal than like a witness or victim. 
"The prosecutor produced a printout of our daughter's 
Myspace page," Mary's father recalls. "Mary was stunned. She 
began to cry. The prosecutor accused her of all sort of things; it 
was like she was working for Epstein. 
"All this time, we knew that we were being watched. Creepy 
guys. Private investigators from Miami. They would follow us, 
scaring the hell out of my wife and Mary's sister. My car was van-
dalized. It was like living in hell." 
By this point, Epstein's defense dream team included Jack 
Goldberger, Alan Dershowitz, and Gerald Lefcourt. All of them 
had excellent track records. Dershowitz and Lefcourt were two 
180 
of America's most famous 
celebrity lawyer—Ken Sta 
had had Bill Clinton impeac 
team. 
As far as Mary's parents 
walked into an ambush. EVE 
playing defense on the side 
ond girl—Alison, who cla: 
never testified in court at al 
TERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
wing depressed and withdrawn 
,lessly, her parents watched her 
tred the end of their rope, they 
le move, Mary had fallen apart 
in with a bad crowd, ran away 
ip with a gang of drug dealers. 
rlocal police, the dealers blamed 
the word that they wanted her 
," Mary's father explained. "We 
e's still seeing the therapist. And 
She's already had to have a seri-
.ere. On June 28, she was brought 
hadn't been briefed by the state 
: the prosecutors—and she had 
d. 
mud that she was being treated 
t witness or victim. 
a printout of our daughter's 
recalls. "Mary was stunned. She 
ccused her of all sort of things; it 
)stein. 
it we were being watched. Creepy 
m Miami. They would follow us, 
and Mary's sister. My car was van-
:11." 
Jense dream team included Jack 
and Gerald Lefcourt. All of them 
)ershowitz and Lefcourt were tWO. 
180 
of America's most famous lawyers, and before long, another 
celebrity lawyer —Ken Starr, the former solicitor general who 
had had Bill Clinton impeached for perjury—would join Epstein's 
team. 
As far as Mary's parents were concerned, their daughter had 
walked into an ambush. Everyone in the courtroom seemed to be 
playing defense on the side of Jeffrey Epstein. And as for the sec-
ond girl—Alison, who claimed that she had been raped—she 
never testified in court at all. 
181 
CHAPTER 48 
Michael Reiter: July 2006 
0 n July 28, the grand jury reached a verdict that floored 
the Palm Beach PD. 
The original plea deal that Krischer had offered to 
Epstein had been bad enough. Now the grand jury was recom-
mending that Epstein be charged with just one felony count of 
solicitation of prostitution. 
There was no mention of underage girls. The original 
accusation— four felony counts of unlawful sex acts with minors 
and one felony count of lewd and lascivious molestation—had 
simply evaporated. 
It wasn't enough to send Epstein to prison. 
Epstein was allowed to surrender on a Sunday, when no one 
would know he'd been arraigned. A few hours later, he was 
released on three thousand dollars bail. 
The Palm Beach PD was not even notified. 
182 
Once again, Chief Reite 
took the extraordinary stej 
prosecutor's office. 
At the time, the federal 
Florida was a Republican 
Reiter recalls being presen 
and remembers Acosta's de( 
be the prosecution, to the 
who takes advantage of th 
sex crimes. Disgusted with 
recalls thinking he'd found 1 
In Acosta, the chief saw 
from confronting a man vc 
connections. 
But it turned out that Ac 
Starr's high-powered multir 
And while Acosta had a stei 
clerking for future Supreme 
only argued two cases befor( 
At the time, Reiter did not 
one had to look much more se 
Reiter's actions did not nece 
not in every corner of the coi 
"I had individuals sugge1 
the investigation and my ref 
was more horsepower than 
had other individuals suggc 
probably fits," Reiter said in 1 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 48 
ry reached a verdict that floored 
Leal that Krischer had offered to 
Now the grand jury was recom-
ged with just one felony count of 
pf underage girls. The original 
s of unlawful sex acts with minors 
and lascivious molestation—had 
)stein to prison. 
-render on a Sunday, when no one 
gned. A few hours later, he was 
llars bail. 
)t even notified. 
182 
Once again, Chief Reiter was outraged. So much so that he 
took the extraordinary step of calling the FBI and the federal 
prosecutor's office. 
At the time, the federal prosecutor of the Southern District of 
Florida was a Republican named R. Alexander Acosta. Chief 
Reiter recalls being present at Acosta's swearing-in ceremony 
and remembers Acosta's declaration that one of his goals would 
be the prosecution, to the fullest extent of the law, of anyone 
who takes advantage of the weak—especially perpetrators of 
sex crimes. Disgusted with Krischer's laissez-faire attitude, Reiter 
recalls thinking he'd found his man. 
In Acosta, the chief saw a prosecutor who wouldn't shy away 
from confronting a man with Jeffrey Epstein's resources and 
connections. 
But it turned out that Acosta had worked under Ken Starr at 
Starr's high-powered multinational law firm, Kirkland & Ellis. 
And while Acosta had a sterling resume, which included a stint 
clerking for future Supreme Court justice Samuel Alito, he had 
only argued two cases before a judge. 
At the time, Reiter did not know this. All he knew was that some-
one had to look much more seriously into Jeffrey Epstein's crimes. 
Reiter's actions did not necessarily make him a hero—at least, 
not in every corner of the community he served. 
"I had individuals suggest that the department's approach to 
the investigation and my referral of the investigation to the FBI 
was more horsepower than the investigation deserved. And I 
had other individuals suggest that—yeah, the term 'back off' 
Probably fits," Reiter said in his deposition for B.B. vs. Epstein. 
183 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"My responsibility was to 
Beach and preserve their con: 
department for all," Reiter sai 
particularly under the crimin 
the nature of our system, be ti 
But along with handing t 
attorney, Reiter took another 
letters—on Palm Beach PD I 
victims in the case. 
He delivered the letters by 
"I had people in the community in Palm Beach who either made 
comments directly to me or to others who relayed them to me that I 
didn't need to take the tack in the investigation that we did, which is 
[to] completely investigate it and then refer it to • the FBI after the 
state case was resolved," Reiter said in the deposition. "I had one 
individual who came to see me a couple of times about this." 
According to the chief, the individual in question was a 
prominent Palm Beach politician. 
"He said this wasn't necessary; this was a case that was really 
very minor," Reiter recalled. "The victims had lifestyles that 
don't make them—shouldn't make them believable to the police 
department." 
"I told him that those kinds of suggestions to me were 
improper and he should stop," said Reiter. "That he had taken a 
couple of steps down the road toward something that could 
eventually constitute a crime. We talked several times. Early on 
it didn't end favorably. You know, this is an individual [whom] I 
had to interact with in my official capacity and in his official 
capacity as well." 
The Palm Beach politician wasn't the only one to pressure 
the police chief. "I received comments from a variety of different 
viewpoints ... in some cases I had people tell me, hey, he's a Palm 
Beacher, why are you investigating a Palm Beacher?" Reiter 
would say when deposed. "I had people that said it was an unfa-
vorable career move for me to ask the state attorney to remove 
himself from the case and to refer it to the FBI.... I had plenty of 
people that told me that that was a mistake." 
Reiter didn't back off. To have done so would have been a 
betrayal—not only of the victims but also of his vocation and 
the community he had sworn he would serve. 
184 
TTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
y in Palm Beach who either made 
ers who relayed them to me that I 
nvestigation that we did, which is 
then refer it to. the FBI after the 
aid in the deposition. "I had one 
:ouple of times about this." 
: individual in question was a 
1. 
y; this was a case that was really 
The victims had lifestyles that 
ike them believable to the police 
ids of suggestions to me were 
;aid Reiter. "That he had taken a 
I toward something that could 
Ve talked several times. Early on 
Ar, this is an individual [whom] I 
icial capacity and in his official 
wasn't the only one to pressure 
iments from a variety of different 
id people tell me, hey, he's a Palm 
gating a Palm Beacher?" Reiter 
d people that said it was an unfa-
ask the state attorney to remove 
fer it to the FBI.... I had plenty of 
is a mistake." 
lave done so would have been a 
ims but also of his vocation and 
te would serve. 
184 
"My responsibility was to protect everyone that lives in Palm 
Beach and preserve their constitutional rights and be the police 
department for all," Reiter said. "And I think that under the law, 
particularly under the criminal laws, that all people have to, by 
the nature of our system, be treated exactly alike." 
But along with handing the case off to the FBI and the US 
attorney, Reiter took another unusual step. He wrote personal 
letters—on Palm Beach PD letterhead— to the parents of the 
victims in the case. 
He delivered the letters by hand. 
185 
TOWN OF PALM BEACH 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
A NixitcNixt. AND STA1E ACCMITED LAW NPORCEMENT AC:ENCV kPOLICE.li 
July 24. 2006 
HAND DELIVERED 
BMA, 
Dear mripm 
Your claughterlanwas the victim of a crime which nas been investigated by the Palm 
Beach Police Department and subsequently referred for prosecution to the Pdtm Beach 
County State Attorneys Office. You may be aware that Jeffrey Epstein was indicted on 
charges of solicitation for orovitution by a Stele of Florida grand ply last week and turned 
himself in at the Palm Beach County jail on Ju!iy 23. 2006.. Wntle I do not speak for them, 
it is my understanding that is the full context in which the Palm Beach County State 
Attorney's Office intends to address the chrges that invowed tne crime in which your 
daughter was victim. 
Please know tnat it is the role and responsibility of law enforcement to investigate Crime 
and to refer ap3ropriate charges to the prosecutor for consideration. I believe that the 
Palm Beach Police Department has acted competently and responsibly in carrying out Ins 
:ole. Should you haverany questions concemlng the state prosecution of this matter, they 
are best addressed by the Palm Beach Count State Attorneys Office 
do not feel that Justice has been sufficiently served by the indictment that has been 
issued. Therefore, please Imo?. that his matter has been referreo to the Federal Bureau 
e Investigation to determine if violations of federal law have occurred. In the ehent that 
the FBI should choose to pursue this matter, tne Palm Beach Police Department will assist 
tnern in their investigation Of potential violations of federal law. 
Please feel free to contact rne at (561) 838-5460 should you have any questions 
Sincerely, 
1W40.J.0 as2,1t, 
r.richael S Reitr 
Chief of Police 
14SR.nt 
I4S S., Co.... PoE• • Poll, Reset Fen as 3'AP0-403 • r$ii) fta sit": • F.:z 1,75..*: • • —• • ••••••,.. 
Jeffrey Epstein: Septemi 
In the winter of 2013, Scc 
die school principal from 
be sentenced to the m 
years in prison, with ten ye 
ing guilty to one charge of sc 
Blake's crime? He sent SE 
ton Beach police officer who N 
boy. But in a sense, Blake v 
tenced to life. The case was a 
treatment regular Florida fol.] 
with a minor. But nothing a 
and the plea deal he mana 
extraordinary. 
Epstein had bought himse 
assembled. His connections 
LM BEACH 
ARTMPNT 
LAW ENIFORCVENT ArZENCY 
4.2006 
which has been investigated by the Palm 
tarred for prosect:tion to the Palm Beach 
.vare that Jeffrey Epstein was indicted on 
of Florida grand jury last week and turned 
23. 2006. While I do not speak tor them, 
in which the Palm Beach County State 
es that invoNed tne crime in which your 
"Of law enforcement to investigate crime 
Jlor for consideration. I beleve that the 
etentiy and responsibly in carrying out this 
the state prosecution of this matter, they 
State Attame/5 Office 
served by the Indictment that has been 
has been referred to the Federal Bureau 
era i law have occurred. In the event that 
Palm Beach Police Deoartmeit will assist 
of federal law. 
0 should you have any questons 
sly, 
S Reiter 
4 Patice 
s3.5,g.• pa, !w;1;5.erre• 
CHAPTER 49 
Jeffrey Epstein: September 2007 
1 n the winter of 2013, Scott Blake, a forty-seven-year-old mid-
dle school principal from Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, would 
be sentenced to the minimum mandatory sentence— ten 
years in prison, with ten years of probation on top—for plead-
ing guilty to one charge of soliciting sex with a minor. 
Blake's crime? He sent sexually charged messages to a Boyn-
ton Beach police officer who was pretending to be a fifteen-year-old 
boy. But in a sense, Blake was lucky: he could have been sen-
tenced to life. The case was an interesting example of the kind of 
treatment regular Florida folks could expect just for soliciting sex 
with a minor. But nothing about Jeffrey Epstein was regular--
- 
and the plea deal he managed to strike in 2007 was simply 
extraordinary. 
Epstein had bought himself one of the best defense teams ever 
assembled. His connections and contributions to Democratic 
187 
JAMES PATTERSON 
FILT 
causes had made him a player on that side of the political aisle. He 
had a famous Republican, Bill Clinton's nemesis, Ken Starr, work-
ing the other side. And just to make sure they'd covered the bases, 
Epstein's team also recruited Roy Black— the lawyer who'd 
cleared William Kennedy Smith of rape and kept Rush Limbaugh 
out of prison for his alleged illegal drug use—and Jay Lefkowitz, 
a defense attorney who'd worked with US attorney R. Alexander 
Acosta at Ken Starr's law firm. 
And so in September, the US attorney's office reached a for-
mal agreement with Epstein's team: the United States would 
defer federal prosecution in favor of prosecution by the state of 
Florida. 
A non-prosecution agreement (NPA) was drafted; among 
other things, it assured Epstein that he would not be prosecuted 
in the Southern District of Florida for felony offenses involving 
the sexual abuse of underage girls. (By that point, thirty known 
victims had been discovered.) Instead it allowed him to plead 
guilty to state felony offenses for solicitation of prostitution and 
the procurement of minors for prostitution. The NPA established 
a procedure that allowed Epstein's victims to sue him in civil 
court and took the extraordinary step of ensuring that "any 
potential co-conspirators" of Epstein's would be immune from 
prosecution. 
"In consideration of Epstein's agreement to plead guilty and 
to provide compensation in the manner described above, if 
Epstein successfully fulfills all of the terms and conditions of 
this agreement, the United States also agrees that it will not 
institute any criminal charges against any potential co-conspira-
tors of Epstein," the agreement stated, mentioning Sarah Kellen 
and Nadia Marcinkova by name. 
188 
"The parties anticipate tha 
part of any public record," I 
United States receives a Freed 
any compulsory process comm 
ment, it will provide notice 
disclosure." 
Remarkably, despite assur 
feds, none of the victims was ( 
this NPA. 
If Epstein did not sign the 
count indictment and a decade 
team of lawyers had gotten him 
ted all the teeth in South Florid; 
For all his protestations of it 
in the world to agree to an NPA. 
On September 24, 2007, Eps. 
Once again, none of the I 
notified. 
189 
'TERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
that side of the political aisle. He 
nton's nemesis, Ken Starr, work-
ke sure they'd covered the bases, 
Zoy Black—the lawyer who'd 
)f rape and kept Rush Limbaugh 
LI drug use—and Jay Lefkowitz, 
. with US attorney R. Alexander 
3 attorney's office reached a for-
team: the United States would 
n. of prosecution by the state of 
nt (NPA) was drafted; among 
that he would not be prosecuted 
ida for felony offenses involving 
rls. (By that point, thirty known 
Instead it allowed him to plead 
)r solicitation of prostitution and 
)rostitution. The NPA established 
em's victims to sue him in civil 
lary step of ensuring that "any 
pstein's would be immune from 
ri's agreement to plead guilty and 
the manner described above, if 
1 of the terms and conditions of 
lates also agrees that it will not 
against any potential co-conspira-
t stated, mentioning Sarah Kellen 
Le. 
188 
"The parties anticipate that this agreement will not be made 
part of any public record," the document concludes. "If the 
United States receives a Freedom of Information Act request or 
any compulsory process commanding the disclosure of the agree-
ment, it will provide notice to Epstein before making that 
disclosure." 
Remarkably, despite assurances they'd received from the 
feds, none of the victims was consulted prior to the drafting of 
this NPA. 
If Epstein did not sign the agreement, he faced a fifty-seven-
count indictment and a decade or more in prison. But Epstein's 
team of lawyers had gotten him a deal so sweet it could have rot-
ted all the teeth in South Florida. 
For all his protestations of innocence, there was every reason 
in the world to agree to an NPA. 
On September 24, 2007, Epstein did sign it. 
Once again, none of the victims had been consulted or 
notified. 
189 
1 
CHAPTER SO 
Jane Doe: February 2008 
As a result of the non-prosecution agreement, a fifty-three-
count indictment that federal prosecutors had prepared 
against Jeffrey Epstein—one that claimed he'd abused 
dozens of underage women—never was filed. 
But as far as lawyers representing Epstein's victims were con-
cerned, the fact that those victims were not consulted about the 
non-prosecution agreement was inexcusable. The "government 
deliberately kept crime victims 'in the dark' so that it could enter 
into a plea arrangement designed to prevent the victims from 
raising any objections," they would argue, in documents filed on 
February 10, 2016. For nine months, the lawyers claimed, from 
the time that the NPA was signed, on September 24, 2007, 
Krischer's office, "doing Epstein's bidding, [had] concealed the 
NPA's existence from victim[s]" and continued to do so until the 
190 
moment that Epstein had 
finally did June 30, 2008. 
In the interim, accordi 
were only told, "This case i 
A lawsuit that Bradley I 
Fort Lauderdale, filed in ji 
Rights Act, or CVRA (tith 
which states that "victims 
ing the right to be heard ii 
be precluded from court pr 
fairly." 
According to him, pros( 
of the victims. Edwards, N 
knew that this suit against 
monetary recovery of any 
also knew that if the goveri 
entered into a contract thal 
rights of Epstein's victims, 
have been improper in an( 
remedy would have been tc 
while it is difficult to knoiA 
contract is overturned, on€ 
could prosecute Epstein fo 
statute of limitations on tho 
At the time of this wr: 
through the courts. It has 
Bleak House— the Charles 
is so massive and so compl€ 
everyone involved into the n 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 50 
;ecution agreement, a fifty-three-
N:leral prosecutors had prepared 
— one that claimed he'd abused 
Lever was filed. 
:nting Epstein's victims were con-
ims were not consulted about the 
Is inexcusable. The "government 
'in the dark' so that it could enter 
ned to prevent the victims from 
ould argue, in documents filed on 
,onths, the lawyers claimed, from 
signed, on September 24, 2007, 
In's bidding, [had] concealed the 
"and continued to do so until the 
190 
moment that Epstein had to plead guilty in court, which he 
finally did June 30, 2008. 
In the interim, according to their lawyers, Epstein's victims 
were only told, "This case is currently under investigation." 
A lawsuit that Bradley Edwards, a victims' rights attorney in 
Fort Lauderdale, filed in July of 2008 cited the Crime Victims' 
Rights Act, or CVRA (title 18, section 3771, of the US Code), 
which states that "victims of federal crimes have rights, includ-
ing the right to be heard in court, and most particularly, not to 
be precluded from court proceedings, and the right to be treated 
fairly." 
According to him, prosecutors had violated the CVRA rights 
of the victims. Edwards, who said he was working pro bono, 
knew that this suit against the government would not allow for 
monetary recovery of any sort (including lawyers' fees). But he 
also knew that if the government, urged by Jeffrey Epstein, had 
entered into a contract that improperly or illegally violated the 
rights of Epstein's victims, then that contract, by nature, would 
have been improper in and of itself—in which case, the only 
remedy would have been to have the contract invalidated. And 
while it is difficult to know what, exactly, would happen if the 
contract is overturned, one possibility is that the government 
could prosecute Epstein for crimes against his victims, if the 
statute of limitations on those crimes has not expired. 
At the time of this writing, that case is winding its way 
through the courts. It has all the earmarks of a modern-day 
Bleak House........ the Charles Dickens novel about a legal case that 
is so massive and so complex that it drags on forever and drags 
everyone involved into the mire. 
191 
JAMES PATTERSON 
* * * 
In the meantime, Epstein began to settle out of court with his 
victims. 
In February of 2008, a Virginia woman who went by the alias 
Jane Doe #2 brought a fifty-million-dollar lawsuit against Epstein. 
At the time of their meeting, she claimed, Epstein was fifty-two 
years old. She was a teenager, and her complaint, which was 
made public, gave the rest of the world an early glimpse of what 
Epstein, and the inner workings of his secret world, looked like 
from a victim's perspective. 
"Epstein is a financier and money manager with a secret cli-
entele limited exclusively to billionaires," the lawsuit alleged. 
"He is himself a man of tremendous wealth, power and influ-
ence. He maintains his principal home in New York and also 
owns residences in New Mexico, St. Thomas and Palm Beach, 
FL. The allegations herein concern Epstein's conduct while at his 
lavish estate in Palm Beach." The complaint continued: 
Upon information and belief, Epstein has a sexual preference 
and obsession for underage minor girls. He engaged in a plan 
and scheme in which he gained access to primarily economi-
cally disadvantaged minor girls in his home, sexually 
assaulted these girls, and then gave them money. In or about 
2004-2005, Jane Doe, then approximately 16 years old, fell 
into Epstein's trap and became one of his victims. 
Upon information and belief, Jeffrey Epstein carried out 
his schemes and assaulted girls in Florida, New York, and on 
his private Island, known as Little St. James, in St. Thomas. 
Epstein's scheme involved the use of young girls to recruit 
192 
underage girls. (Upon inj 
who brought Jane Doe to 
of Epstein, and will ther 
plaint.) Under Epstein's r 
ostensibly to give a weal 
compensation in his Pal 
would be contacted when 
Palm Beach residence or 
Epstein or someone on hi. 
to bring one or more um 
recruiter, upon informatic 
economically disadvantag 
Palm Beach County who 
being offered— generally 
session—and who were p 
to authorities or have cre 
conduct were made. Thi 
Epstein's plan. 
Epstein's plan reflected 
Upon arrival at Epstein's 
would be introduced to Sar 
gathered the girl's persona 
and telephone number. Ms 
up a flight of stairs to a b( 
table in addition to other 
graphs of nude women lin 
bedroom. The girl would ti 
with Epstein, who would b, 
then remove his towel and 
and direct the girl to remol 
FILTHY RICH 
TER SON 
to settle out of court with his 
a woman who went by the alias 
1-dollar lawsuit against Epstein. 
Le claimed, Epstein was fifty-two 
ind her complaint, which was 
world an early glimpse of what 
of his secret world, looked like 
Loney manager with a secret cli-
llionaires," the lawsuit alleged. 
lclous wealth, power and influ-
al home in New York and also 
o, St. Thomas and Palm Beach, 
:rn Epstein's conduct while at his 
e complaint continued: 
Epstein has a sexual preference 
inor girls. He engaged in a plan 
:d access to primarily economi-
girls in his home, sexually 
gave them money. In or about 
tpproximately 16 years old, fell 
one of his victims. 
Jeffrey Epstein carried out 
rls in Florida, New York, and on 
Little St. James, in St. Thomas. 
the use of young girls to recruit 
192 
underage girls. (Upon information and belief, the young girl 
who brought Jane Doe to Epstein was herself a minor victim 
of Epstein, and will therefore not be named in this Com-
plaint.) Under Epstein's plan, underage girls were recruited 
ostensibly to give a wealthy man a massage for monetary 
compensation in his Palm Beach mansion. The recruiter 
would be contacted when Epstein was planning to be at his 
Palm Beach residence or soon after he had arrived there. 
Epstein or someone on his behalf would direct the recruiter 
to bring one or more underage girls to the residence. The 
recruiter, upon information and belief, generally sought out 
economically disadvantaged underaged girls from western 
Palm Beach County who would be enticed by the money 
being offered—generally $200 to $300 per "massage" 
session—and who were perceived as less likely to complain 
to authorities or have credibility if allegations of improper 
conduct were made. This was an important element of 
Epstein's plan. 
Epstein's plan reflected a particular pattern and method. 
Upon arrival at Epstein's mansion, the underaged victim 
would be introduced to Sarah Kellen, Epstein's assistant, who 
gathered the girl's personal information, including her name 
and telephone number. Ms. Kellen would then bring the girl 
up a flight of stairs to a bedroom that contained a massage 
table in addition to other furnishings. There were photo-
graphs of nude women lining the stairway hall and in the 
bedroom. The girl would then find herself alone in the room 
with Epstein, who would be wearing only a towel. He would 
then remove his towel and lie naked on the massage table, 
and direct the girl to remove her clothes. Epstein would then 
193 
JAMES PATTERSON 
perform one or more lewd, lascivious and sexual acts, 
including masturbation and touching the girl's vagina. 
Consistent with the foregoing plan and scheme, Jane Doe 
was recruited to give Epstein a massage for monetary com-
pensation. Jane was brought to Epstein's mansion in Palm 
Beach. Once at the mansion, Jane was introduced to Sarah 
Kellen, who led her up the flight of stairs to the room with the 
massage table. In this room, Epstein told Jane to take off her 
clothes and give him a massage. Jane kept her panties and 
bra on and complied with Epstein's instructions. Epstein 
wore only a towel around his waste [sic]. After a short period 
of time, Epstein removed the towel and rolled over exposing 
his penis. Epstein began to masturbate and he sexually 
assaulted Jane. 
• After Epstein had completed the assault, Jane was then 
able to get dressed, leave the room and go back down the 
stairs. Jane was paid $200 by Epstein. The young girl who 
recruited Jane was paid $100 by Epstein for bringing Jane to 
him. 
As a result of this encounter with Epstein, Jane experi-
enced confusion, shame, humiliation and embarrassment, and 
has suffered severe psychological and emotional injuries. 
194 
Jeffrey Epstein: June 30, 2 
n June 30, 2008, more 
Officer Pagan's investig; 
age girls, Jeffrey Epsti 
County jail. 
A few days earlier, Epstein 
New York Times. At the time, I. 
(the line having long since blu 
Saint Jeff's. 
"I respect the legal process 
by this." 
He'd spent years fighting 
then the federal government, in 
would have seen him emerge 
battle had aged him. Mellowed 1-
all but boasted to a journalist fr 
1 
TERSON 
lascivious and sexual acts, 
aching the girl's vagina. 
rig plan and scheme, Jane Doe 
massage for monetary com-
!o Epstein's mansion in Palm 
fane was introduced to Sarah 
t of stairs to the room with the 
ostein told Jane to take off her 
ge. Jane kept her panties and 
pstein's instructions. Epstein 
laste [sic]. After a short period 
owel and rolled over exposing 
masturbate and he sexually 
ted the assault, Jane was then 
room and go back down the 
Epstein. The young girl who 
by Epstein for bringing Jane to 
'ter with Epstein, Jane experi-
iation and embarrassment, and 
:al and emotional injuries. 
194 
CHAPTER SI 
Jeffrey Epstein: June 30, 2008 
0 n June 30, 2008, more than three years after the start of 
Officer Pagan's investigation into his dealings with under-
age girls, Jeffrey Epstein reported to the Palm Beach 
County jail. 
A few days earlier, Epstein had taken a phone call from the 
New York Times. At the time, he'd been working, or vacationing 
(the line having long since blurred), at his compound on Little 
Saint Jeff's. 
"I respect the legal process," Epstein had said. "I will abide 
by this." 
He'd spent years fighting the charges—fighting the state, 
then the federal government, in an effort to avoid a sentence that 
would have seen him emerge from prison an old man. But the 
battle had aged him. Mellowed him, even. Months earlier, he had 
all but boasted to a journalist from New York magazine. 
195 
JAMES PATTERSON 
"It's the Icarus story, someone who flies too close to the sun," 
that journalist said in reference to "the agony" of Epstein's legal 
"ordeal." 
"Did Icarus like massages?" Epstein responded. 
But after Epstein's indictment, there were no more boasts. 
For the most part, he kept silent in public and retreated into his 
Eyes Wide Shut world. And when the New York Times did manage 
to get him to speak on the record, he spoke like a chastened man. 
Sitting on his patio down on Little St. James, Epstein likened 
himself to the shipwrecked Gulliver after he washes ashore on 
Lilliput. 
"Gulliver's playfulness had unintended consequences," he said. 
On the eve of his departure, he had a few more things to say: 
"That is what happens with wealth. There are unexpected 
burdens as well as benefits...." 
"Your body can be confined, but not your mind...." 
"I am not blameless...." 
Outside of the agreement he'd signed with the prosecutor's 
office, this was the closest Epstein had come to admitting his 
guilt. But strange details were sprinkled throughout the story. 
He had formed a "board of directors of friends" who would coun-
sel him on his behavior. And, seemingly for the first time, he'd 
hired a full-time masseur—a man. 
Readers of the New York Times might have wondered: Epstein 
was going to jail for eighteen months. What need would he have 
for a full-time masseur? 
The story's last line hinted at the answer: in preparation for 
incarceration, Epstein had set up an e-mail alert. 
From then on, his automatic reply would read "On vacation." 
196 
TERSON 
PART V 
Incarceration 
who flies too close to the sun," 
o "the agony" of Epstein's legal 
pstein responded. 
it, there were no more boasts. 
in public and retreated into his 
the New York Times did manage 
, he spoke like a chastened man. 
Little St. James, Epstein likened 
liver after he washes ashore on 
intended consequences," he said. 
le had a few more things to say: 
wealth. There are unexpected 
but not your mind...." 
signed with the prosecutor's 
Lein had come to admitting his 
sprinkled throughout the story. 
:ors of friends" who would coun-
eemingly for the first time, he'd 
an. 
es might have wondered: Epstein 
mths. What need would he have 
at the answer: in preparation for 
p an e-mail alert. 
reply would read "On vacation." 
96 
CHAPTER 52 
Jeffrey Epstein: June 30, 2008 
The Palm Beach County Main Detention Center is on the 
west side of Lake Worth Lagoon, which separates West 
Palm Beach from the island of Palm Beach. Epstein's 
home on El Brillo Way is five miles to the east. Mary's high 
school is several miles to the west. 
It's fitting, somehow, that this jail—which is the jail Epstein 
ends up in, after turning himself in to the local sheriff—lies in 
between the two points. 
The detention center's inmates, their families, and their law-
yers call it the Gun Club, a reference not only to the jail's address, 
on Gun Club Road, but also to its population of hustlers, bur-
glars, drug dealers, rapists, and murderers. There's the occa-
sional hooker as well. And, from time to time, Haitian refugees 
are lodged there. 
There are three thousand inmates in all. 
199 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Some wait a year before making their way to the courthouse, 
their date with the public defender, and an appearance before 
the judge. Some get out much sooner, if only they can make bail. 
But there's no bail without money—or at least collateral—and, 
of course, being without money is often what lands people in jail 
in the first place. 
Jeffrey Epstein could have posted bail for every single inmate 
in the Gun Club. 
But that's just one of the ways in which Epstein is unlike his 
fellow inmates. He's an admitted pedophile now. Even a famous one. 
And, famously, pedophiles tend to fare poorly in jail. 
Luckily for Epstein, Ric Bradshaw, the sheriff in charge of 
local jails, transfers Epstein to the infirmary, where he spends 
exactly one night before being transferred seven miles up the 
road to a much smaller, safer location: the Palm Beach County 
Central Detention Center—or, as it's known, the Stockade. 
"It's not somewhere we'd put a serial killer," Ric Bradshaw says. 
Most of the residents here are addicts who take part in drug 
education programs, prostitutes, petty criminals, and drunks. 
It's a far safer place for Epstein to be, and, unlike other inmates 
(except, of course, those being held in solitary), he'll end up with 
his own cell, even his own wing, which he has to himself. 
Epstein's allowed to pay for a security guard, who sits outside the 
cell and keeps watch. And he's allowed any number of visitors. 
For a convicted felon, it's an extraordinary benefits package. 
But according to Sheriff Bradshaw, who also oversees the Stock-
ade, Epstein is incredulous over the treatment he is receiving. 
"He was astonished that he had to go to prison at all," Brad-
shaw remembers. 
"Let's just say he didn't think he belonged there." 
200 
*et 
Sheriff Ric Bradshaw: June 
0 ur job," says Ric Bradsl 
killed him." 
Sheriff Bradshaw co 
Western. Imposingly tall, witt 
mustache, and slow, southern 
old-school law officer— the ki] 
patrolling the streets of Tombst 
He's been a lawman for forty-fi 
been spent as the head of the co 
talk to the media, and today, as 
he's clearly uncomfortable, fidget 
But here in his wood-panele 
Gun Club, Bradshaw remembers 
,' "We have a thousand sexua 
says. When he arrived here, he 
i 
20 
LTTERSON 
:ing their way to the courthouse, 
.nder, and an appearance before 
)oner, if only they can make bail. 
fey—or at least collateral—and, 
is often what lands people in jail 
)osted bail for every single inmate 
ays in which Epstein is unlike his 
pedophile now. Even a famous one. 
tend to fare poorly in jail. 
;radshaw, the sheriff in charge of 
o the infirmary, where he spends 
ig transferred seven miles up the 
location: the Palm Beach County 
r, as it's known, the Stockade. 
a a serial killer," Ric Bradshaw says. 
are addicts who take part in drug 
ltes, petty criminals, and drunks. 
in to be, and, unlike other inmates 
g held in solitary), he'll end up with 
1 wing, which he has to himself. 
security guard, who sits outside the 
allowed any number of visitors. 
an extraordinary benefits package. 
radshaw, who also oversees the Stock-
rer the treatment he is receiving. 
he had to go to prison at all," Brad-
hink he belonged there." 
200 
CHAPTER 53 
Sheriff Ric Bradshaw: June 2015 
ur job," says Ric Bradshaw, "was to make sure nobody 
killed him." 
Sheriff Bradshaw could have stepped off the set of a 
Western. Imposingly tall, with his cowboy hat, Kurt Russell 
mustache, and slow, southern drawl, he looks exactly like an 
old-school law officer—the kind you once would have found 
patrolling the streets of Tombstone, Deadwood, or Dodge City. 
He's been a lawman for forty-four years, eleven of which have 
been spent as the head of the county's jails. As a rule, he doesn't 
talk to the media, and today, as he talks about Jeffrey Epstein, 
he's clearly uncomfortable, fidgety, and ill disposed. 
But here in his wood-paneled office on the first floor of the 
Gun Club, Bradshaw remembers Epstein quite well. 
"We have a thousand sexual predators in the county," he 
says. "When he arrived here, he was one of them. He definitely 
201 
JAMES PATTERSON 
FIJ 
fit the category we have to ensure the general population is not 
going to take their anger out on." 
Although he understands that Epstein is a sex offender 
and has a sense of the scope of his alleged crimes, Bradshaw's 
also aware that the actual conviction was for a "low-level felony." 
At the request of Epstein's attorneys—a request that is con-
firmed by a court order—Epstein is quickly granted "work 
release." 
What it means in practice is that six days a week, for up to 
sixteen—sixteen! —hours each day, Epstein is allowed to leave 
the Stockade to be driven by a designated driver in a car ear-
marked especially for him to any one of three places: his lawyer 
Jack Goldberger's office in downtown West Palm Beach, the 
Palm Beach office of a science foundation that he's established, 
and his house on El Brillo Way. 
Despite the ankle bracelet he wears, it could be argued that 
as a fabulously rich prisoner with two of his own jets parked 
nearby, at the Palm Beach International Airport, Epstein might 
have posed a flight risk. 
Instead, every day of the week save one, he's allowed to go to 
his lawyer's, to go to his office, or simply to go home. 
Did the deputy in charge of Epstein go to the house on El 
Brillo Way? 
Ric Bradshaw considers the question. 
"Yes," he says, "he did." 
Did the deputy go inside the house? 
"Yes, he did." 
If so, the deputy might have encountered Nadia Marcinkova, 
who was staying on El Brillo Way at the time. He may also have 
202 
met a suave short-haired ge) 
French accent. 
That would be Jean-Luc 
For the duration of Jeffre 
the Stockade, Brunel's taken 
Brillo Way. 
2( 
'ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
Jure the general population is not 
1. 
that Epstein is a sex offender 
of his alleged crimes, Bradshaw's 
liction was for a "low-level felony." 
ttorneys— a request that is con-
pstein is quickly granted "work 
is that six days a week, for up to 
ch day, Epstein is allowed to leave 
• a designated driver in a car ear-
any one of three places: his lawyer 
lowntown West Palm Beach, the 
e foundation that he's established, 
y. 
t he wears, it could be argued that 
with two of his own jets parked 
.ternational Airport, Epstein might 
week save one, he's allowed to go to 
e, or simply to go home. 
e of Epstein go to the house on El 
he question. 
the house? 
ave encountered Nadia Marcinkova, 
) Way at the time. He may also have 
202 
met a suave short-haired gentleman who spoke with a distinct 
French accent. 
That would be Jean-Luc Brunel. 
For the duration of Jeffrey Epstein's stay—or half stay—in 
the Stockade, Brunel's taken up residence in the house on El 
Brill° Way. 
203 
F1 
fraudster named Arnold Pr 
had been commuted by Bill 
left office. 
Sheriff Bradshaw wants 
conjugal. 
But even US attorney Aca 
agreement with the governm( 
ment was highly irregular. 
"Epstein appears to have 
while in jail," Acosta would 
eral public. "Although the tei 
are a matter appropriately lei 
eral authorities, without doi 
while in state custody underrr 
And, of course, Epstein's: 
by taxpayers. 
CHAPTER 54 
Jeffrey Epstein: June 30, 2008—July 21, 2009 
ccording to Sheriff Ric Bradshaw, the treatment Jeffrey 
Epstein received in the Stockade was not preferential. By 
some measures, he isn't wrong. 
In 2010, millionaire polo mogul John Goodman killed a 
young man while driving drunk. He was convicted but was 
allowed to spend two years under house arrest while his appeal 
was being tried. 
Like Epstein, Goodman was allowed visitors. But Goodman's 
visitor list was nothing like Jeffrey Epstein's. 
Nadia Marcinkova is said to have visited Epstein in jail more 
than seventy times. 
Epstein's assistant Sarah Kellen also visited Epstein in the 
Stockade. 
A Russian mixed martial artist named Igor "Houdini" Zinoviev was another visitor, as was a disbarred lawyer and financial 
204 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 54 
!008-July 21, 2009 
c Bradshaw, the treatment Jeffrey 
Stockade was not preferential. By 
't wrong. 
o mogul John Goodman killed a 
Irunk. He was convicted but was 
inder house arrest while his appeal 
vas allowed visitors. But Goodman's 
effrey Epstein's. 
I to have visited Epstein in jail more 
Kellen also visited Epstein in the 
ii artist named Igor "Houdini" Zino 
-
was a disbarred lawyer and financial 
204 
fraudster named Arnold Prosperi, whose own prison sentence 
had been commuted by Bill Clinton on the day before Clinton 
left office. 
Sheriff Bradshaw wants to be clear: none of these visits was 
conjugal. 
But even US attorney Acosta, who negotiated Epstein's unusual 
agreement with the government, would say that Epstein's arrange-
ment was highly irregular. 
"Epstein appears to have received highly unusual treatment 
while in jail," Acosta would say in a letter addressed to the gen-
eral public. "Although the terms of confinement in a state prison 
are a matter appropriately left to the state of Florida and not fed-
eral authorities, without doubt, the treatment that he received 
while in state custody undermined the purpose of a jail sentence." 
And, of course, Epstein's stay at the Stockade was subsidized 
by taxpayers. 
205 
Fi 
CHAPTER 55 
R. Alexander Acosta's letter to the general public, 
March 20, 2011 
To whom it may concern: 
I served as U. S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida 
from 2005 through 2009. Over the past weeks, I have read 
much regarding Mr. Jeffrey Epstein. Some appears true, 
some appears distorted. I thought it appropriate to provide 
some background, with two caveats: (i) under Justice Depart-
ment guidelines, I cannot discuss privileged internal com-
munications among department attorneys and (ii) I no longer 
have access to the original documents, and as the matter is 
now nearly 4 years old, the precision of memory is reduced. 
The Epstein matter was originally presented to the 
Palm Beach County State Attorney. Palm Beach Police 
alleged that Epstein unlawfully hired underage high 
206 
school females to provic 
massages. Police sought 
resulted in a term of im 
reports, however, in 200( 
to concerns regarding th( 
to charge Epstein only 
assault with no intent tc 
would have resulted in 
register as a sexual offet 
underage victims. 
Local police were di! 
ney's conclusions, and res 
Federal authorities recei 
engaged in additional invt 
the quality of the evidenc( 
at trial. With a federal 
considerations. First, a 
requires that the crime be 
an interstate nexus. Seco] 
charged by the state, the fe 
extent, to back-stop state 
is no miscarriage of justice 
erally that which has alre 
level. 
After considering the q 
additional considerations, 
the state charge was insufi 
the prosecutors and age 
Mr. Epstein's attorney, Rc:, 
best known for his suc 
CHAPTER 55 
er to the general public, 
T the Southern District of Florida 
Dver the past weeks, I have read 
ey Epstein. Some appears true, 
thought it appropriate to provide 
D caveats: (i) under Justice Depart-
discuss privileged internal com-
ment attorneys and (ii) I no longer 
I. documents, and as the matter is 
precision of memory is reduced. 
was originally presented to the 
te Attorney. Palm Beach Police 
Ilawfully hired underage high 
206 
FILTHY RICH 
school females to provide him sexually lewd and erotic 
massages. Police sought felony charges that would have 
resulted in a term of imprisonment. According to press 
reports, however, in 2006 the State Attorney, in part due 
to concerns regarding the quality of the evidence, agreed 
to charge Epstein only with one count of aggravated 
assault with no intent to commit a felony. That charge 
would have resulted in no jail time, no requirement to 
register as a sexual offender and no restitution for the 
underage victims. 
Local police were dissatisfied with the State Attor-
ney's conclusions, and requested a federal investigation. 
Federal authorities received the State's evidence and 
engaged in additional investigation. Prosecutors weighed 
the quality of the evidence and the likelihood for success 
at trial. With a federal case, there were two additional 
considerations. First, a federal criminal prosecution 
requires that the crime be more than local; it must have 
an interstate nexus. Second, as the matter was initially 
charged by the state, the federal responsibility is, to some 
extent, to back-stop state authorities to ensure that there 
is no miscarriage of justice, and not to also prosecute fed-
erally that which has already been charged at the state 
level. 
After considering the quality of the evidence and the 
additional considerations, prosecutors concluded that 
the state charge was insufficient. In early summer 2007, 
the prosecutors and agents in this case met with 
Mr. Epstein's attorney, Roy Black. Mr. Black is perhaps 
best known for his successful defense of William 
207 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Fij 
Kennedy Smith. The prosecutors presented Epstein a 
choice: plead to more serious state felony charges (that 
would result in 2 years' imprisonment, registration as a 
sexual offender, and restitution for the victims) or else 
prepare for a federal felony trial. 
What followed was a year-long assault on the prose-
cution and the prosecutors. I use the word assault inten-
tionally, as the defense in this case was more aggressive 
than any which I, or the prosecutors in my office, had 
previously encountered. Mr. Epstein hired an army of 
legal superstars: Harvard Professor Alan Dershowitz, for-
mer Judge and then Pepperdine Law Dean Kenneth Starr, 
former Deputy Assistant to the President and then Kirk-
land & Ellis Partner Jay Lefkowitz, and several others, 
including prosecutors who had formerly worked in the 
U.S. Attorney's Office and in the Child Exploitation and 
Obscenity Section of the Justice Department. Defense 
attorneys next requested a meeting with me to challenge 
the prosecution and the terms previously presented by 
the prosecutors in their meeting with Mr. Black. The 
prosecution team and I met with defense counsel in Fall 
2007, and I reaffirmed the office's position: two years, 
registration and restitution, or trial. 
Over the next several months, the defense team pre-
sented argument after argument claiming that felony 
criminal proceedings against Epstein were unsupported 
by the evidence and lacked a basis in law, and that the 
office's insistence on jail-time was motivated by a zeal to 
overcharge a man merely because he is wealthy. They 
bolstered their arguments with legal opinions from 
208 
well-known legal expert 
team warned me that th€ 
good man to serve time • 
book if we continued tc 
office systematically con! 
ment, and when we di 
appealed to Washington. 
The defense strategy 
Defense counsel investiga 
their families, looking for 
provide a basis for disqual 
ecutor is an effective (thi 
eliminating the individua 
and thus most qualified to 
lihood for success. Defensi 
least two prosecutors. I 
rejected, these arguments. 
Despite the army of au 
the terms first presented 
meeting. On June 30, 2008 
appeal to Washington D.( 
guilty in state court. He NiNq 
onment, register as a sexua 
restitution to the victims. 
Some may feel that the I 
tougher. Evidence that has 
encourage that view. Man; 
out, filing detailed statemen 
ages. Physical evidence has 
these additional statements 
2, 
ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ecutors presented Epstein a 
)us state felony charges (that 
prisonment, registration as a 
ation for the victims) or else 
trial. 
..ar-long assault on the prose-
. I use the word assault inten-
this case was more aggressive 
prosecutors in my office, had 
4r. Epstein hired an army of 
'rofessor Alan Dershowitz, for-
-dine Law Dean Kenneth Starr, 
3 the President and then Kirk-
_efkowitz, and several others, 
o had formerly worked in the 
in the Child Exploitation and 
Justice Department. Defense 
t meeting with me to challenge 
terms previously presented by 
meeting with Mr. Black. The 
let with defense counsel in Fall 
he office's position: two years, 
n, or trial. 
months, the defense team pre-
Lrgument claiming that felony 
tinst Epstein were unsupported 
ced a basis in law, and that the 
time was motivated by a zeal to 
ly because he is wealthy. They 
nts with legal opinions from 
208 
well-known legal experts. One member of the defense 
team warned me that the office's excess zeal in forcing a 
good man to serve time in jail might be the subject of a 
book if we continued to proceed with the matter. My 
office systematically considered and rejected each argu-
ment, and when we did, my office's decisions were 
appealed to Washington. As to the warning, I ignored it. 
The defense strategy was not limited to legal issues. 
Defense counsel investigated individual prosecutors and 
their families, looking for personal peccadilloes that may 
provide a basis for disqualification. Disqualifying a pros-
ecutor is an effective (though rarely used) strategy, as 
eliminating the individuals most familiar with the facts 
and thus most qualified to take a case to trial harms like-
lihood for success. Defense counsel tried to disqualify at 
least two prosecutors. I carefully reviewed, and then 
rejected, these arguments. 
Despite the army of attorneys, the office held firm to 
the terms first presented to Mr. Black in the original 
meeting. On June 30, 2008, after yet another last minute 
appeal to Washington D.C. was rejected, Epstein pled 
guilty in state court. He was to serve 18 months impris-
onment, register as a sexual offender for life, and provide 
restitution to the victims. 
Some may feel that the prosecution should have been 
tougher. Evidence that has come to light since 2007 may 
encourage that view. Many victims have since spoken 
out, filing detailed statements in civil cases seeking dam-
ages. Physical evidence has since been discovered. Had 
these additional statements and evidence been known, 
209 
JAMES PATTERSON 
the outcome may have been different. But they were not 
known to us at the time. 
A prosecution decision must be based on admissible 
facts known at the time. In cases of this type, those are 
unusually difficult because victims are frightened and 
often decline to testify or if they do speak, they give con-
tradictory statements. Our judgment in this case, based 
on the evidence known at the time, was that it was better 
to have a billionaire serve time in jail, register as a sex 
offender, and pay his victims restitution than risk a trial 
with a reduced likelihood of success. I supported that 
judgment then, and based on the state law as it then stood 
and the evidence known at the time, I would support that 
judgment again. 
Epstein's treatment, while in state custody, likewise 
may encourage the view that the office should have been 
tougher. Although the terms of confinement in a state 
prison are a matter appropriately left to the State of Flor-
ida, and not federal authorities, without doubt, the treat-
ment that he received while in state custody undermined 
the purpose of a jail sentence. 
Some may also believe that the prosecution should 
have been tougher in retaliation for the defense's tactics. 
The defense, arguably, often failed to negotiate in good 
faith. They would obtain concessions as part of a negotia-
tion and agree to proceed, only to change their minds, 
and appeal the office's position to Washington. The inves-
tigations into the family lives of individual prosecutors 
were, in my opinion, uncalled for, as were the accusations 
of bias and/or misconduct against individual prosecutors. 
210 
F: 
At times, some prosecut 
trial, and at times I felt t 
right in the first meetin 
spective of defense tacti 
tional right to a defense 
right should not be puni: 
sel's exercise of their ri 
Washington D.C. Proseci 
frustration and anger wi 
their judgment. 
After the plea, I reca 
One was from the FBI Sp( 
to offer congratulations. 
meetings regarding this c 
of the defense, and he cat 
holding firm against the 1 
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. 
received calls or commun 
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I 
als previously, from my 
Kirkland & Ellis in the m 
peace. I agreed to talk an 
Epstein pled guilty, as I tt 
tors battle defense attorne 
have tried, yet I confess ti: 
fully in this case. 
The bottom line is this: 
served time in jail and is ni 
He has been required to pa) 
restitution clearly cannot c 
'ATTERSON 
n different. But they were not 
must be based on admissible 
1 cases of this type, those are 
e victims are frightened and 
they do speak, they give con-
• judgment in this case, based 
:he time, was that it was better 
time in jail, register as a sex 
ms restitution than risk a trial 
I of success. I supported that 
on the state law as it then stood 
: the time, I would support that 
Idle in state custody, likewise 
hat the office should have been 
rms of confinement in a state 
priately left to the State of Flor-
rities, without doubt, the treat-
le in state custody undermined 
nce. 
ve that the prosecution should 
Iliation for the defense's tactics. 
['ten failed to negotiate in good 
concessions as part of a negotia-
:d, only to change their minds, 
sition to Washington. The inves-
lives of individual prosecutors 
ailed for, as were the accusations 
:t against individual prosecutors. 
210 
FILTHY RICH 
At times, some prosecutors felt that we should just go to 
trial, and at times I felt that frustration myself. What was 
right in the first meeting, however, remained right irre-
spective of defense tactics. Individuals have a constitu-
tional right to a defense. The aggressive exercise of that 
right should not be punished, nor should a defense coun-
sel's exercise of their right to appeal a U.S Attorney to 
Washington D.C. Prosecutors must be careful not to allow 
frustration and anger with defense counsel to influence 
their judgment. 
After the plea, I recall receiving several phone calls. 
One was from the FBI Special Agent-In-Charge. He called 
to offer congratulations. He had been at many of the 
meetings regarding this case. He was aware of the tactics 
of the defense, and he called to praise our prosecutors for 
holding firm against the likes of Messrs. Black, Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. It was a proud moment. I also 
received calls or communications from Messrs. Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I had known all three individu-
als previously, from my time in law school and at 
Kirkland & Ellis in the mid 90s. They all sought to make 
peace. I agreed to talk and meet with each of them after 
Epstein pled guilty, as I think it important that prosecu-
tors battle defense attorneys in a case and then move on. I 
have tried, yet I confess that this has been difficult to do 
fully in this case. 
The bottom line is this: Mr. Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire, 
served time in jail and is now a registered sexual offender. 
He has been required to pay his victims restitution, though 
restitution clearly cannot compensate for the crime. And 
2/1 
JAMES PATTERSON 
we know much more today about his crimes because vic-
tims have come forward to speak out. Some may disagree 
with prosecutorial judgments made in this case, but 
those individuals are not the ones who at the time 
reviewed the evidence available for trial and assessed the 
likelihood of success. 
• Respectfully, 
R. Alexander Acosta 
Former U.S. Attorney 
Southern District of Florida 
PATTERSON 
7 about his crimes because vic-
speak out. Some may disagree 
lents made in this case, but 
,t the ones who at the time 
ilable for trial and assessed the 
PA i T 
• Respectfully, 
R. Alexander Acosta 
Former U.S. Attorney 
Southern District of Florida 
212 
ftermath 
CHAPTER 56 
Jeffrey Epstein: July 2009 
Jeffrey Epstein walks out of the Stockade on July 21, 2009, 
having served less than thirteen months of his eighteen-month 
sentence. One of the concessions his lawyers have gotten 
while working out his plea-deal guarantees is that the media not 
be alerted to the time and day of his departure. 
But from now on, Epstein, who is fifty-six, will carry the 
mark of a level 3 sex offender—level 1 being the lowest, and 
level 3 indicating the highest possible risk of a future criminal 
act of a sexual nature. Wherever he goes, he will be forced to reg-
ister as such. 
Every ninety days, Epstein will have to check in with the 
authorities. Every year, the New York City Police Department 
will take his mug shot. And for a full year, Epstein will be under 
house arrest in Palm Beach. 
This last prohibition doesn't stop him from flying, with court 
215 
JAMES PATTERSON 
approval, on his own planes to New York and to Little Saint Jeff's, 
where the locals have taken to referring to Epstein's 727 as the 
Lolita Express. 
There are other restrictions, of course, that Epstein is sup-
posed to abide by. He has to provide the state of Florida with a 
list of all the motor vehicles, boats, and airplanes he owns. The 
full list includes two Escalades, six Suburbans, two Ford F-150s, 
two Harley-Davidsons, a Land Rover, a Hummer H2, a thirty-
four-foot JVC boat, and a thirty-five-foot Donzi powerboat. 
Three of his five planes turn out to be registered to a com-
pany called Air Ghislaine, Inc. 
As a registered sex offender, Epstein is legally obliged to 
undergo psychiatric treatment. This is a restriction he'll get 
around by having his own psychologist submit a report to law 
enforcement officers. 
Epstein is also prohibited from accessing pornography on 
the Internet and using social networking for sexual purposes. 
For Jeffrey Epstein, there will be no Bangbros, Tinder, or 
Swingles. com. 
There will be lawsuits. 
Six weeks before probation ends, he settles with seven women 
who sue him in civil court. But Epstein can easily afford the set-
tlement payments. He won't be going back to jail, and in regard 
to further prosecution for any criminal actions, his troubles are 
behind him. 
Not everyone who's spent time in his company will be so 
lucky. 
216 
Alfredo Rodriguez: Aug 
E pstein's houseman, Al 
prison sentence. 
In a sworn statem 
maid, Lupita, who had comi 
up after Epstein's "massage5 
lic, had cried as she describe 
Rodriguez was fired by I 
after seeing a strange car— g 
As it turned out, the ca 
masseuses. 
On his way out of the hc 
of Epstein's papers, which he 
by Chief Reiter's investigator. 
For years, Rodriguez tries 
manager. No one wanted tc 
IATTERSON 
New York and to Little Saint Jeff's, 
referring to Epstein's 727 as the 
s, of course, that Epstein is sup-
rovide the state of Florida with a 
oats, and airplanes he owns. The 
, six Suburbans, two Ford F-150s, 
1 Rover, a Hummer H2, a thirty-
-five-foot Donzi powerboat. 
rn out to be registered to a corn-
ler, Epstein is legally obliged to 
it. This is a restriction he'll get 
ychologist submit a report to law 
from accessing pornography on 
.etworking for sexual purposes. 
will be no Bangbros, Tinder, or 
ends, he settles with seven women 
it Epstein can easily afford the set-
e going back to jail, and in regard 
• criminal actions, his troubles are 
time in his company will be 
216 
CHAPTER 57 
Alfredo Rodriguez: August 2009 
Epstein's houseman, Alfredo Rodriguez, also ends up with a 
prison sentence. 
In a sworn statement, Rodriguez talks about Epstein's 
maid, Lupita, who had complained to him about having to clean 
up after Epstein's "massages." Lupita, who was a devout Catho-
lic, had cried as she described the stained towel and sex toys. 
Rodriguez was fired by Epstein, he says, when he called 911 
after seeing a strange car—a "beater" —in Epstein's driveway. 
As it turned out, the car had belonged to one of Epstein's 
masseuses. 
On his way out of the house on El Brillo Way, he took some 
of Epstein's papers, which he failed to produce when questioned 
by Chief Reiter's investigators. 
For years, Rodriguez tried and failed to find work as a house 
nager. No one wanted to hire someone who'd worked for 
217 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Jeffrey Epstein. Finally, desperately, he tried to sell the informa-
tion he'd stolen. 
The papers named underage girls and the places where 
Epstein had taken them. The list included locations in Califor-
nia, Paris, New Mexico, New York, and Michigan. The papers 
also included the names, addresses, and phone numbers of 
famous individuals—Henry Kissinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
man, Ralph Fiennes, David Koch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump, 
Bill Richardson, Bill Clinton, and former Israeli prime minister 
Ehud Barak among them. 
This was intriguing, if not at all damning. Epstein made a 
habit of collecting such information for future use. But informa-
tion pertaining to the girls would have bolstered the state's case 
against Jeffrey Epstein, and by withholding it from the Palm 
Beach PD and the FBI, Rodriguez had committed a crime. 
In his defense, Rodriguez would say that the papers were an 
"insurance policy." Without them, he believed, Epstein would 
have made him "disappear." 
But now Rodriguez needed the money. And so a few weeks 
after Epstein's release from the Stockade, he approached a lawyer 
who was representing some of Epstein's masseuses. He had the 
"holy grail," he insisted. A• golden nugget." The names of hun-
dreds of girls, he said, who had been abused by Epstein. 
The lawyer told Rodriguez in no uncertain terms that he was 
obliged to turn whatever he had over to the authorities. By 
demanding money for the information, Rodriguez was commit-
ting another crime. 
According to a sworn statement by Christina Pryor, a special. 
agent with the FBI, Rodriguez "persisted that he would only turn 
over the information in his possession in exchange for $50,000." 
218 
Fr u. 
Two months later, on Octobe. 
who insisted once more on bi 
lawyer told him that an associ 
What the lawyer knew one 
the associate in question was. 
the FBI. A few days later, on I' 
guez and sets up a meeting, wl 
"During the meeting, Roc 
book and several sheets of lega 
ten notes," Special Agent Pryo 
continues: 
Rodriguez explained that he 
his former employer's resid 
2004 to 2005 and that the ho 
working for his former emp 
detail the information within 
ant information to the UCE. I; 
he had previously lied to the. 
about the $50,000, took posse 
counting it. 
Rodriguez was then detai. 
Proceedings, Title 18, U.S. Co 
tioned. After Miranda warning 
Rodriguez waived his rights a 
those rights. Rodriguez admiti 
and book in his possession an 
to local law enforcement or th 
21 
?ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
.ately, he tried to sell the informa-
rage girls and the places where 
list included locations in Califor-
York, and Michigan. The papers 
'dresses, and phone numbers of 
:issinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
Dch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump, 
and former Israeli prime minister 
)t at all damning. Epstein made a 
nation for future use. But informa-
Duld have bolstered the state's case 
by withholding it from the Palm 
;uez had committed a crime. 
would say that the papers were an 
them, he believed, Epstein would 
ed the money. And so a few weeks 
i.e Stockade, he approached a lawyer 
of Epstein's masseuses. He had the 
golden nugget." The names of hun-
ad been abused by Epstein. 
!z in no uncertain terms that he was 
le had over to the authorities. By 
iformation, Rodriguez was commit 
itement by Christina Pryor, a special 
tz "persisted that he would only air, . .; 
0 
.ossession in exchange for $50,000." ...,. .) 
218 
* * * 
Two months later, on October 28, the lawyer called Rodriguez, 
who insisted once more on being paid for the information. The 
lawyer told him that an associate would be in touch. 
What the lawyer knew and Rodriguez did not know was that 
the associate in question was an undercover employee (UCE) of 
the FBI. A few days later, on November 2, the UCE calls Rodri-
guez and sets up a meeting, which takes place the following day. 
"During the meeting, Rodriguez produced a small bound 
book and several sheets of legal pad paper containing handwrit-
ten notes," Special Agent Pryor would say in her statement. She 
continues: 
Rodriguez explained that he had taken the bound book from 
his former employer's residence while employed there in 
2004 to 2005 and that the book had been created by persons 
working for his former employer. Rodriguez discussed in 
detail the information within the book and identified import-
ant information to the UCE. In addition, Rodriguez admitted 
he had previously lied to the FBI. Rodriguez asked the UCE 
about the $50,000, took possession of the money, and began 
counting it. 
Rodriguez was then detained for Obstruction of Official 
Proceedings, Title 18, U.S. Code, Section 1512(c), and ques-
tioned. After Miranda warnings were administered by agents, 
Rodriguez waived his rights and signed a written waiver of 
those rights. Rodriguez admitted that he had the documents 
and book in his possession and had never turned them over 
to local law enforcement or the FBI. In addition, Rodriguez 
219 
JAMES PATTERSON 
advised he had witnessed nude girls whom he believed were 
underage at the pool area of his former employer's home, 
knew that his former employer was engaging in sexual con-
tact with underage girls, and had viewed pornographic 
images of underage girls on computers in his employer's 
home. Rodriguez was then released from custody for further 
investigation. 
The items that Rodriguez had attempted to sell to the 
UCE for $50,000.00 were reviewed by an agent familiar with 
the underlying criminal investigation. As Rodriguez had 
described, the items contained information material to the 
underlying investigation that would have been extremely use-
ful in investigatang] and prosecuting the case, including the 
names and contact information of material witnesses and 
additional victims. Had those items been produced in 
response to the inquiries of the state law enforcement officers 
or the FBI Special Agents, their contents would have been 
presented to the federal grand jury. 
Following his release, Alfredo Rodriguez was arrested again. 
He appeared in court on June 18, 2010, facing charges of cor-
ruptly concealing records and documents. Dressed in a blue 
jumpsuit and shackles, he apologized for his crimes and asked 
the court to be merciful. 
He received a sentence of eighteen months. 
It was the same punishment that Jeffrey Epstein had gotten 
for his crimes. But unlike Epstein, Alfredo Rodriguez served his 
time in a federal prison and did not ask for, or receive, permis-
sion to go on work release. 
220 
Prince Andrew: 2011 
p rince Andrew also fares 
imprisonment. 
The two men are old I 
Ghislaine Maxwell introduced] 
time in the 1990s. In 2000, Eps 
Castle to celebrate the queen's E 
flew to Sandringham, the quee) 
a party Prince Andrew threw for 
The prince had also visited 
Palm Beach as well as in New 
Roberts made in her 2015 decla 
asked her to give the prince Iv; 
back with the details. 
According to the Guardian, 
tied together at Windsor Castle, 
2; 
