davitaine 
June 1,2015 
US DHS CIS 
Vermont Service Center 
30 Houghton Str eet 
St. Albans, VT 05478 
Re: Ms. 
Dear Sir or Madam: 
I am writing this letter on behalf of Ms. 
Application. 
Immigration Application 
and in connection with her 0-1 Visa 
My name is David Blaine and I am a magician. I have performed my own brand of close up 
magic all over the world, and have also set and broken several world records, including holding my breath 
for over 17 minutes, spending 35 hours atop a 100-foot pole, surviving only on water for 44 days, and 
enduring a week buried in a coffin. I have traveled internationally, performing magic privately for 
President Bill Clinton and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, President George W. Bush, Secretary of 
Defense Donald Rumsfeld at the Pentagon, Henry Kissinger, Bill Gates and Mayor Michael Bloomberg. 
I met Ms. a few years ago through mutual friends and I was highly 
impressed with her. Aside from being an amazing fashion model, she has a strong passion for children 
and education. I realized what a talented public relations and fundraising expert she is when I saw her 
organizing numerous high end charitable events and organizations, as well as finding A-list funders for 
her causes. 
A fundraiser and public relations expert of extraordinary ability can find, target, and approach the 
correct people for their cause, and then recruit them with the correct individual enticements. This is a 
very difficult thing to pull off, but was able to do so, not only with efficiency and success, but 
with great ease and grace, and she seems determined to keep going. The success stories she drew for the 
children of the US Virgin Islands, the Ivory Coast, and many others are incredible. She truly makes a 
difference in the lives of the world's children. 
That is a passion that we both share. Every year, I travel all across the country and the world to 
perform magic for children's hospital wards, burn units, and juvenile prisons and detention centers. I also 
truly enjoyed performing magic for Paul Newman and groups of children at the Hole in the Wall Gang 
Camp, among other charitable causes. 
I've been discussing with how we can work together to raise money for children and 
education. Therefore, I wholeheartedly support her visa application. 
Please feel free to contact me if you have any further questions or concerns. 
DB PRODUCTIONS, LLC 
354 BROADWAY SUITE B NEW YORK NY 10013 
T F 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019476 
