From: Lisa Ne 
Sent: 12/7/2015 7:01:10 PM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: and....another bit of advice ...? on WA 
Importance: High 
Dear Jeffrey, 
As you probably know, Woody Allen's legal team said that we couldn't use the film we shot of him: online, for 
broadcast, anywhere. 
It was a fantastic experience taping with him and so, even if I can't ever use the footage, I'm still grateful to you 
for making the day possible. But of course I'd like to use the footage. I decided when--way back-- we got this 
very negative answer back from his lawyers that I should just take my time about asking --since it would take 
us 2 years to be ready to edit the footage anyway (The online course is chronological. When I taped Woody we 
were still back in 1730. Now we've gotten to the 1920s) 
Well, we've now arrived at the season when we'll be editing materials on William Carlos Williams for our 
course on Modernism and, as we discussed on Saturday, on poetry and other arts, The Poetry of Art, Sport, 
and Play 
I would also, of course, love to make a tv episode out of the conversation, but the threshold question is whether 
he'll let us use it for anything at all. In case it would matter, 
Other performers who have already taped with me include 
John Lithgow, 
Diane Paulus 
Julie Taymor 
Nas 
Eve Ensler 
Damian Woetzel 
Kate Burton 
Lil Buck Riley 
Alfre Woodard 
Herbie Hancock 
Tony Kushner 
Natalia Zukerman 
and those who have agreed to tape with me include 
Sally Field 
Lena Dunham 
Yo Yo Ma 
Anna Deveare Smith 
and more. 
Those in other fields include journalists, senators, president clinton etc etc. You've read my pitch before (many 
times) 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028955 
His is one of only two releases that we haven't gotten. What do you think of my chances? 
Lisa 
Elisa New 
Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature 
Harvard University 
148 Barker Center 
12 Quincy Street 
Cambridge, MA 
02138 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028956 
