From: Richard Kahn 
Sent: 12/24/2015 12:52:15 AM 
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Fwd: Alert: FIRPTA and REIT Reform Provisions in the New Tax Law Open Door to Increased Foreign Investment in 
U.S. Real Property Interests 
Importance: High 
Richard Kahn 
HBRK Associates Inc. 
575 Lexington Avenue, 4th Floor 
New York, NY 10022 
Tel 
Fax 
Cell 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Sadis & Goldberg Tax Group < 
Date: December 23, 2015 at 3:02:13 PM EST 
To 
Subject: Alert: FIRPTA and REIT Reform Provisions in the New Tax Law Open Door to Increased 
Foreign Investment in U.S. Real Property Interests 
Reply-To: 
TAX ALERT 
DECEMBER 23, 2015 
FIRPTA and REIT Reform Provisions in 
New Tax Law Open Door to Increased 
Foreign Investment in U.S. Real 
Property Interests 
For further information about this Alert, 
please contact: 
Steven Etkind 
Partner 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026829 
212.573.8412 
setkind@sglawyers.com 
Alex Gelinas 
Partner 
212.573.8159 
agelinas@sglawyers.com 
Please feel free to discuss any aspect of 
this Alert with your regular Sadis & 
Goldberg contact or with any of the 
partners whose names and contact 
information can be found at the end of 
the Alert. 
On December 18, 2015, President Obama signed into law a bill that significantly reforms the provisions 
of the Internal Revenue Code that were originally added 35 years ago by the Foreign Investment in 
Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (FIRPTA). The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (the 
"PATH Act") also includes extensions of a number of tax relief provisions that expired at the end of 
2015. The PATH Act makes foreign capital investment in U.S. real estate, energy and infrastructure 
assets more attractive by expanding certain exemptions from FIRPTA and clarifying the application of 
certain FIRPTA provisions to REITs and their shareholders. 
I. FOREIGN PENSION FUNDS EXEMPTED FROM FIRPTA TAXATION 
One of the most significant provisions of the PATH Act is the addition of a complete exemption from 
FIRPTA for "qualified foreign pension funds" and "entities" wholly owned by such funds, effective on 
the date of enactment. A foreign pension fund is "qualified" if it is subject to government regulation 
and certain reporting requirements in its home jurisdiction, is established to provide retirement or 
pension benefits to participants or beneficiaries that are current or former employees, has no greater 
than 5 percent beneficiaries, and enjoys tax benefits on either contributions or investment income in 
its home jurisdiction. The new exemption applies to direct investments and investments made 
through partnerships (including private equity funds). The PATH Act provides for certain details to be 
addressed by Treasury Regulations. It appears that the "entities" eligible for the FIRPTA exemption 
could include a U.S. or foreign "blocker" corporation that is wholly owned by a qualifying foreign 
pension fund. This exemption will, for the first time, permit foreign pension funds, including some 
governmental funds, to hold control positions in REITs without losing their FIRPTA exemption. 
Note that the regular rules of the Internal Revenue Code other than FIRPTA still would apply to the 
foreign pension fund. Therefore, a foreign pension fund that invested in a partnership that was 
engaged in a U.S. business (real estate or non-real estate) would still be subject to U.S. federal income 
tax on its share of the partnership's "effectively connected" U.S. business income in the same manner 
as other non-U.S. persons making an investment in a U.S. business partnership. 
Here are some examples of what can be done in light of the changes made by the PATH Act: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026830 
A. Raw Land Investment. A qualifying foreign pension fund invests in a partnership that buys raw land 
in the United States. (This could be a vacant lot, timberland, oil and gas or mineral property, or other 
property interests that qualify for treatment as real property for federal income tax purposes.) The 
investment is a capital asset, as the partnership is not engaged in business. The partnership later sells 
the property to a developer, or the pension fund sells its partnership interest. Under prior law, the 
foreign pension fund's non-business capital gain would automatically be subject to US federal income 
tax because of FIRPTA. Under the new law, the foreign pension fund's long-term or short-term capital 
gain is exempt from U.S. income tax and FIRPTA withholding because FIRPTA does not apply. 
B. Equity Kicker Mortgage Loan Investment. A foreign pension fund acquires an ownership interest 
in a mortgage loan secured by U.S. real property. The loan includes stated interest plus an equity 
kicker (e.g., additional interest equal to a share of gain realized on sale of the property). Such an 
equity kicker loan is treated as a U.S. real property interest under FIRPTA. Under prior law, gain 
realized by the foreign pension fund upon sale of the loan would automatically be subject to U.S. 
income tax under FIRPTA. Under new law, the gain realized on the sale of the mortgage loan would 
be exempt from U.S. income tax. (This conclusion is based on the assumption that the foreign pension 
fund is a mere investor and not engaged in an active lending business in the U.S.) 
C. U.S. Blocker Corp. Investment. A foreign pension fund wants to make an equity investment in a 
U.S. real estate business that is organized as a partnership. The foreign pension fund forms a U.S. 
corporation to acquire the partnership interest and the corporation is capitalized with a mix of equity 
and debt held by the shareholder. The corporation is subject to U.S. income tax on its net income, but 
gets to deduct interest paid or accrued on the debt held by the shareholder. The foreign corporation 
later sells the stock of the corporation. Under prior law, the gain on sale of the stock would be subject 
to U.S. income tax because the corporation was a "U.S. real property holding corporation" under 
FIRPTA. Under new law, FIRPTA does not apply to the foreign pension fund, so the capital gain on sale 
of the stock is exempt from U.S. income tax. Note that the U.S.-source interest paid to the foreign 
shareholder could be subject to U.S. withholding tax under the regular rules of the Code, but if the 
pension fund is organized in a jurisdiction that has a tax treaty with the U.S. (e.g., UK, Germany, 
France, China, Japan, etc.), these interest payments could be exempt from U.S. withholding under such 
tax treaty. 
2. FIRPTA EXEMPTION FOR INVESTMENTS IN PUBLICLY TRADED REIT STOCK INCREASED FROM 5 
PERCENT to 10 PERCENT 
For publicly traded REITs, the PATH Act opens the door to increased investment by expanding the 
current statutory exemption from FIRPTA for small portfolio investments by non-U.S. persons. The Act 
provides all foreign investors (not just pension funds) can now own up to 10 percent of the stock of a 
publicly traded REIT without triggering FIRPTA tax. Under prior law, FIRPTA tax would apply upon the 
foreign investor's sale of stock of the publicly traded REIT or the receipt of certain distributions from 
such REIT if the foreign investor holds more than 5 percent of the REIT's stock. 
3. CLARIFICATION OF THE EXEMPTION FOR INVESTMENTS IN DOMESTICALLY CONTROLLED REITS 
The PATH Act includes important clarifying presumptions that will allow publicly traded REITs and their 
shareholders to rely with greater confidence on the current law FIRPTA exemption for gains realized 
on sales of stock in "domestically controlled" REITS. In determining whether a REIT is domestically 
controlled, the REIT is now permitted to presume that any owner of less than 5 percent of any publicly 
traded shares of the REIT is a U.S. person, unless the REIT has actual knowledge to the contrary. 
4. REVENUE RAISING PROVISIONS RELATING TO FIRPTA AND REITs 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026831 
The PATH Act includes certain revenue raising provisions to offset, in part, the tax revenue loss 
anticipated to result of the above-described tax reform provisions of the Act. Such revenue raisers 
include (among other technical changes) the following provisions: 
A. Increase in FIRPTA Withholding Rate. The purchaser of a U.S. real property interest from a non-
U.S. person was previously required to withhold 10 percent of the purchase price under FIRPTA. The 
PATH Act increases this rate to 15 percent for dispositions occurring after the 60th day following 
enactment, but maintains the 10 percent rate for sales of residential property for between $300,000 
and $1,000,000. This provision is not a tax increase but is designed to ensure that FIRPTA withholding 
collects a sufficient portion of the taxes owed. 
B. Restriction on REIT Spin-offs. In recent years, it has become increasingly common for large 
corporate taxpayers to reduce their tax bills by contributing real estate used in their businesses to a 
subsidiary, spinning off the subsidiary in a tax free transaction under Code section 355, and then 
having the spun-out corporation making a REIT election. The PATH Act curtails such activity by (i) 
providing that neither the distributing corporation nor the spun-out corporation can make a REIT 
election for ten years after that corporation was involved in a Section 355 transaction and (ii) denying 
tax-free treatment to spin-offs in which the distributing corporation or spun-out corporation (but not 
both) is a REIT. 
5. CONCLUSION 
The revisions to the FIRPTA and REIT rules discussed above represent a potentially large expansion of 
the incentives for foreign investment in U.S. real property interests, especially for foreign pension 
funds. Sponsors of U.S. real property investment funds and foreign investors with interests in U.S. real 
estate assets should review the new provisions to determine whether such persons could benefit from 
such U.S. tax law changes. 
Sadis & Goldberg LLP 
Please feel free to discuss any aspect of this Alert with your regular Sadis & Goldberg contact or with 
any of the partners, whose names and contact information are provided below. 
Alex Gelinas, 212.573.8159, 
Daniel G. Viola, 212.573.8038,  dviola@sglawyers.com  
Danielle Epstein-Day, 212.573.8416, depstein@sglawyers.com  
Douglas Hirsch, 212.573.6670, dhirsch@sglawyers.com  
Erika Winkler, 212.573.8022, ewinkler@sglawyers.com  
Jamie Kim, 212.573.8034, jkim@sglawyers.com  
Jeffrey Goldberg, 212.573.6666, jgoldberg@sglawyers.com  
Jennifer Rossan, 212.573.8783, kossan@sglawyers.com  
John Araneo, 212.573.8158, jaraneo@sglawyers.com  
Lance Friedler, 212.573.8030, Ifriedler@sglawyers.com  
Mitchell Taras, 212.5738417,  mtaras@sglawyers.com  
Paul Fasciano, 212.573.8025, pfasciano@sglawyers.com  
Ron S. Geffner, 212.573.6660, rgeffner@sglawyers.com  
Sam Lieberman, 212.573.8164, slieberman@sglawyers.com  
Steven Etkind, 212.573.8412, setkind@sglawyers.com  
Steven Nuttier, 212.573.8424, shuttler@sglawyers.com  
Yehuda Braunstein, 212.573.8029, ybraunstein@sglawyers.com  
Yelena Maltser, 212.573.8429, ymaltser@sglawyers.com  
agelinas@sglawyers.com 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026832 
If you would like copies of our other Alerts, please visit our website at www.sglawyers.com and choose 
"Library". 
The information contained herein was prepared by Sadis & Goldberg LLP for general informational 
purposes for clients and friends of Sadis & Goldberg LLP. Its contents should not be construed as legal 
advice, and readers should not act upon the information in this Tax Alert without consulting counsel. This 
information is presented without any representation or warranty as to its accuracy, completeness or 
timeliness. Transmission or receipt of this information does not create an attorney-client relationship with 
Sadis & Goldberg LLP. Electronic mail or other communications with Sadis & Goldberg LLP cannot be 
guaranteed to be confidential and will not create an attorney-client relationship with Sadis & Goldberg 
LLP. 
Sadis & Goldberg LLP 551 Fifth Avenue, 21St Floor New York, NY 10176 212.947.3793 
Copyright © 24315 Sadis & Goldberg LLP 
Forward this email 
This email was sent to richarddavidkahn@yahoo.com by sgalert@sglawyers.com I 
Update Profile/Email Address I Rapid removal with SafeUnsubscribeTM I About our service provider. 
Sadis & Goldberg LLP 551 Fifth Avenue, 21st Floor New York I NY I 10176 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 026833 
