From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
paul krassner I  
3/22/2017 2:35:34 PM 
jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Fwd: Wednesday's Headlines: Labor pick cut deal with billionaire accused of haying sex with minors 
Importance: High 
JEFFREY—
AS A FRIEND I'M SAYING MY ATHEIST PRAYERS FOR YOU. 
DON'T LET THE BASTARDS FRAME YOU. 
—PAUL 
From: The Washington Post <emaile.washingtonpost.com> 
Subject: Wednesday's Headlines: Labor pick cut deal with billionaire accused of having sex 
with minors 
Date: March 22, 2017 at 3:03:03 AM PDT 
To: 
Democracy Dies in Darkness 
The morning's most important stories, selected by Post editors 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022397 
F 
Top Stories 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022398 
Labor pick cut deal with billionaire accused of having sex with minors  
President Trump is a witness in a lawsuit over how federal prosecutors — including Alexander Acosta, a former 
U.S. attorney in Miami who is Trump's secretary of labor nominee — handled the accusations against 
billionaire Jeffrey Epstein. 
By Marc Fisher • Read more » 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022399 
Trump tells GOP critics of health-care bill: 'I'm gonna come after 
you'  
The president stormed Capitol Hill to sell the health-care overhaul, using 
both charm and admonishment to make his case, reassuring skittish 
members that they would gain seats in Congress if the bill passed. Rep. 
Harold Rogers, a supporter of the bill, said of the president's remark: "Oh, 
he was kidding around. I think." 
By Mike DeBonis, Kelsey Snell and Robert Costa • Read more » 
Gorsuch says attacks on federal judges are 'disheartening' and 
'demoralizing'  
Under questioning, Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch reiterated what 
he had told senators in private — that he is offended by attacks like the 
ones leveled by President Trump against federal judges who have ruled in 
cases involving him. 
By Robert Barnes and Ed O'Keefe • Read more » 
Trump's budget targets rural development programs that provide a 
quiet lifeline  
As a political statement, Trump's budget proposal delighted many small-
government conservatives. But voters in Kentucky's Appalachia, an area 
that supports the president, worry that vital community programs that 
enhance job prospects and keep towns afloat might suffer. 
By Jose A. DelReal • Read more » 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022400 
Yazidis who suffered genocide are fleeing again, but this time not 
from the Islamic State  
At a strategic crossroads between Syria, Turkey and Iraq, the traditional 
Yazidi heartland has become a flash point for Kurdish political rivalries. 
"We feel like a toy in the hands of the politicians," a Yazidi religious 
sheikh said. 
By Loveday Morris • Read more » 
ADVERTISEMENT 
'MA? 
Opinions 
TN& 
Susan Rice: When the White House twists the truth, we are all less safe 
By Susan E. Rice • Read more » 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022401 
Good-golly Gorsuch may turn out to be a rascal on the bench 
By Dana Milbank • Read more » 
President Trump's sanest decision 
By Kathleen Parker • Read more » 
Trump has no idea how to grow vegetables 
By Garrison Keillor • Read more » 
Reality is creeping into the Trump show 
By David Ignatius • Read more » 
The Trump administration's attack on the Chesapeake Bay 
By Editorial Board • Read more » 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022402 
_WELL' 
More News 
Trump's 'big, beautiful wall' at U.S.-Mexico border 
will require him to take big swaths of other people's 
land 
The wall will cost a lot more — politically and 
economically — than the president has publicly 
acknowledged. Trump will need to wield the power 
of government to forcibly take private properties, 
including those belonging to his supporters. 
By Tracy Jan • Read more » 
As White House seeks distance, former Trump  
campaign chairman faces new corruption  
allegations  
North Korean missile explodes seconds after 
launch  
The attempted missile launch comes at a time of 
heightened tensions in the region, with the U.S. and 
South Korea conducting joint military exercises and 
the Trump administration clearly signaling it is 
prepared to use force to stop the Kim regime. 
By Anna Fifield • Read more » 
As Ivanka Trump's White House role expands, her 
company is sued for unfair competition  
A San Francisco clothing retailer says President 
Trump, his daughter and his aides have leveraged 
the presidency to promote products from Ivanka 
Trump's brand. 
By Matea Gold • Read more » 
Tillerson, NATO look for new date for meeting 
with foreign ministers  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022403 
A Ukrainian lawmaker claimed documents show 
Paul Manafort attempted to hide payments he 
received from a political party with ties to Russia. 
Manafort has denied assisting Russia in election 
hacks and a spokesman called the new Ukraine 
allegations "baseless." 
By Rosalind S. Helderman, Andrew Roth and Tom 
Hamburger • Read more »  
Share Today's Headlines: 
The effort came after news that Secretary of State 
Rex Tillerson would miss a NATO summit meeting 
and later travel to Russia. As officials tried to 
schedule a new meeting, all sides insisted that 
Tillerson meant no disrespect in deciding to skip the 
April 5 gathering. 
By Karen DeYoung • Read more » 
Twitter Facebook 
Trouble reading? Click here to view in your browser. 
You received this email because you are signed up for Headlines. For additional free newsletters or to manage 
your newsletters, click here. 
We respect your privacy. If you believe that this email has been sent to you in error or you no longer wish to receive email 
from The Washington Post, click here. Contact us for help. 
02017 The Washington Post, 1301 K St NW, Washington DC 20071 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 022404 
