From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Attachments: 
Deepak Chopra 
8/8/2016 9:52:40 AM 
jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Re: America's Shadow: The Real Secret of Donald J. Trump - SFGate by Deepak Chopra 
supergenes[2].png 
Importance: High 
Yes 
Thanks for forwarding it! 
It was a fascinating evening! 
I've felt a kinship with Woody because he is tortured by existential dilemmas as am I. 
The Russian was just being Russian- a socialist with right wing tastes . I actually liked him. 
The wife was being a mother to Woody. I think he's needed that all his life . 
I will meet you at the Bowery at 230 PM 
Send me the address 
Deepak Chopra 
2013 Costa Del Mar Road 
Carlsbad, CA 92009 
'ffaste• 
Super Genes: Unlock the Astonishing Power of Your DNA for Optimum Health and Wellbeing 
On Aug 8, 2016, at 5:43 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote: 
i will forward it. he asked if you would come back again, without the russian. to me it was a woody 
allen movie. you talking conciousness , his wife more concerned with the salad dressing, and the russian 
deciding the future of syria. . As you know I find ideas no matter how extreme , the root of possible 
insight, so the other day I had viisitn the psychedelic crowd. one of them has opened a store on 1 st and the 
bowery called the alchemist kitchen. . How about we meet there , I want to see the store and you ride with 
me back uptown. lets say 230? I have left my schedule open after. 
On Mon, Aug 8, 2016 at 4:57 AM, Deepak Chopra <MM=111.  wrote: 
Since Woody was into the subconscious mind I thought I'd share this 
See you at 3PM 
http://www.sfgate.com/opinion/chopra/article/America-s-Shadow-The-Real-Secret-of-Donald-J-7965248.php 
Deepak Chop, d 
2013 Costa Del Mar Road 
Carlsbad, CA 92009 
The Chopra Foundation  
<supergenes[2].png> 
Super Genes: Unlock the Astonishing Power of Your DNA for Optimum Health and Wellbeing  
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028986 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 028987 
