From: Kathy Ruemmler [ 
Sent: 3/13/2017 2:45:19 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: When It Comes to Wall Street, Preet Bharara Is No Hero - ProPublica 
Importance: High 
https://www.propublica.org/article/when-it-comes-to-wall-street-preet-bharara-is-no-hero 
When It Comes to Wall Street, Preet Bharara Is No 
Hero 
The prominent U.S. attorney fired by Donald Trump this weekend has 
been justly acclaimed for his pursuit of political corruption. But his 
treatment of the Wall Street executives involved in the financial meltdown 
was far less confrontational. 
by Jesse Eisinger 
ProPublica, March 12, 2017, 6:22 p.m. 
1 Comment Print Print 
search Follow ProPublica 
Email Updates by email 
_____Preet Bharara, then U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, at Trump 
Tower in November 2016 (Drew Angerer/Getty Images) 
After his election in 1968, President Richard Nixon asked Robert Morgenthau, the US 
Attorney for the Southern District of New York, to resign. Morgenthau refused to leave 
voluntarily, saying it degraded the office to treat it as a patronage position. 
Nixon's move precipitated a political crisis. The president named a replacement. Powerful 
politicians lined up to support Morgenthau. Morgenthau had taken on mobsters and power 
brokers. He had repeatedly prosecuted Roy Cohn, the sleazy New York lawyer who had 
been Senator Joe McCarthy's right-hand man. (One of Cohn's clients and protégés was a 
young New York City real estate developer named Donald Trump.) When Cohn complained 
that Morgenthau had a vendetta against him, Morgenthau replied, "A man is not immune 
from prosecution merely because a United States Attorney happens not to like him." 
Morgenthau carried that confrontational attitude to the world of business. He pioneered the 
Southern District's approach to corporate crime. When his prosecutors took on corporate 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019845 
fraud, they did not reach settlements that called for fines, the current fashion these days. 
They filed criminal charges against the executives responsible. 
Before Morgenthau, the Department of Justice focused on two-bit corporate misdeeds 
Ponzi schemes and boiler room operations. Morgenthau changed that. His prosecutors went 
after CEOs and their enablers___the accountants and lawyers who abetted the frauds or 
looked the other way. "How do you justify prosecuting a nineteen-year old who sells drugs 
on a street corner when you say it's too complicated to go after the people who move the 
money?" he once asked. 
Morgenthau's years as United States Attorney were followed by political success. He was 
elected New York County District Attorney in 1974, the first of seven consecutive terms for 
that office. 
There are parallels between Morgenthau, and Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney for the 
Southern District who was fired by President Trump this weekend. 
Like Morgenthau, the 48-year old Bharara leaves the office of US Attorney for the Southern 
District celebrated for taking on corrupt and powerful politicians. Bharara prosecuted two of 
the infamous "three men in a room" who ran New York state: Sheldon Silver, the 
Democratic speaker of the assembly and Dean Skelos, the Republican Senate majority 
leader. 
He won convictions of a startling array of local politicians, carrying on the work of the 
Moreland Commission, an ethics inquiry created and then dismissed by New York's Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo. (This weekend, Bharara cryptically tweeted that "I know what the 
Moreland Commission must have felt like," a suggestion that he was fired as he was 
pursuing cases pointed at Trump or his allies.) 
But the record shows that Bharara was much less aggressive when it came to confronting 
Wall Street's misdeeds. 
President Obama appointed Bharara in 2009, amid the wreckage of the worst financial crisis 
since the Great Depression. He inherited ongoing investigations into the collapse, including 
a probe against Lehman Brothers. 
He also inherited something he and his young charges found more alluring: insider-trading 
cases against hedge fund managers. His office focused obsessively on those. At one point, 
the Southern District racked up a record of 85-0 in those cases. (Appeals courts would later 
throw out two prominent convictions, infuriating him and dealing blows to several other 
cases.) 
Hedge funds are safer targets. The firms aren't enmeshed in the global financial markets in 
the way that giant banks are. Insider trading cases are relatively easy to win and don't 
address systemic abuses that helped bring down the financial system. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019846 
Even there his record was more mixed than is popularly understood. As Sheelah Kolhatkar 
demonstrates in her propulsive and riveting "Black Edge," when it came to bringing his 
biggest whale to justice, Steve Cohen of SAC Capital, the Southern District blinked. They 
did not charge him, only securing a guilty plea from his firm. 
Present and former prosecutors say Bharara did not give much emphasis to investigations 
arising from the financial meltdown, an approach shared by his boss, Attorney General Eric 
Holder. Justice Department insiders say many of those inquiries withered not because they 
were unpromising, but because they had little support. 
Bharara missed an opportunity by not bringing any significant criminal charges against 
individuals in the wake of the collapses of Lehman, investment bank Merrill Lynch, the 
insurer AIG, the mortgage securities and collateralized debt obligation businesses, or the 
myriad public misrepresentations from bank CEOs about their finances. 
Bharara and senior officials in Washington argue that there were no criminal cases to file 
after the 2008 crisis. But the U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan did pursue significant civil 
cases against the banks for their mortgage activities, cases that had to proove misconduct by 
the "preponderance of the evidence." And DOJ did win guilty pleas from the banks 
themselves, an indication that prosecutors might have been able to charge individuals for 
their part in crimes their institutions had acknowledged. Academics who studied those years, 
including Columbia's Tomasz Piskorski and James Witkin and Chicago's Amit Seru found  
widespread patterns of fraud in the mortgage business. 
The exception makes this failure all the more puzzling. As I detailed in 2014, Bharara's 
office brought one case for misconduct during the financial crisis____against a mid-level 
banker. Prosecutors charged Kareem Serageldin of Credit Suisse with overseeing traders 
who knowingly misrepresented the value of mortgage securities. Serageldin pleaded guilty 
and went to prison. 
Serageldin's colleagues in the industry and others familiar with Credit Suisse found it hard 
to believe that he was the only person involved in that particular fraud. 
Bharara's reluctance to pursue senior executives was seen in other investigations of big 
banks. His office wrested a $1.7 billion fine from JPMorgan Chase over its complicity in the 
Bernie Madoff Ponzi scheme, but it brought no charges against individual bankers. 
One odd aspect of his tenure was the Southern District's willingness to defer to other 
jurisdictions when it came to Wall Street cases. 
Historically, the SDNY has been the leading enforcers of securities laws, nicknamed the 
"sovereign district" for its propensity to grab corporate fraud cases from elsewhere on the 
flimsiest of jurisdictional pretexts. Under Bharara, the southern district let other U.S. 
attorneys claim investigations into residential mortgage-backed securities, the instruments at 
the heart of the financial crisis. Those other offices were not nearly as versed in complex 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019847 
financial cases as their colleagues in Manhattan. In addition, Bharara's office ceded post-
financial crisis investigations into foreign exchange and global interest rate manipulation to 
prosecutors working from the Justice Department's headquarters. 
Like Morgenthau, Bharara was a prominent figure in the New York landscape, given to 
well-orchestrated press conferences and memorable sound bites. Like Morgenthau, he did 
not leave office quietly, even thought the president has a longstanding right to name his own 
U.S. attorneys. And like Morgenthau, he may try to parlay his martyrdom into elective 
office. 
But if he runs on his record of convictions, as prosecutors often do, voters might want to 
consider as well the list of possible targets he never pursued. 
Like this story? Sign up for our daily newslette to get more of our best work. 
Jesse Eisinger 
Jesse Eisinger is a senior reporter at ProPublica, covering Wall Street and finance. 
Don't Miss Our Latest Stories 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 019848 
