12 The Virgin Islands Daily News 
PERVERSION OF JUSTICE 
Saturday, March 2, 2019 
Federal prosecutors admit backing down 
Epstein's attorneys applied relentless pressure, they say 
tliTaild"`"" 
In recent court filings, the government was 
fore. to ans,Aer questions about its negotia-
tions, fin.ly admitting in 2013 that federal 
prosecutors had back. down under relentless 
pressure by Jeffrey Epstein, attomeys. 
"The government admits that, at least in part 
as a result of objections lodg. by Epstein, law-
yers to victim notifications, the [Unit. States 
Attorney, Office] teev.uated its obligations 
to provide notification to victims and Jane Doe 
it 1 was thus not told that the 
USAO had entered into a 
r:irtil;P=trftilgrafteeffnr 
;A
i
" 
Francey Hakes, the 
former feder. prosecutor 
"I have never heard of a case 
where feder. prosecutors 
consult with a defense at-
Kenneth torney before they send out 
Starr standard victim notification 
letters. To negotiate what 
the letters ,rnuld say and whether they Aould be 
sent at all suggest that the victims' rights were 
violated mukiple times." 
Kenneth Staff, aggressive advocacy for 
Epstein against allegations of improper sexual 
behavior was in stark contr. to the path he 
took investigating President Bill Clinton as 
independent counsel for the Whitewater probe. 
The Starr Report, the summary of his find-
ings in the Whitewater investigation, which 
start. as a probe of a land deal gone sour and 
veer. into an investigation of sexu. miscon-
duct, savag. the president for his involvement 
with White House intern Monica Lewinslcy and 
was the basis for impeachment 
Starr himself Amid face criticism in 2016 - 
he stepp. down as president of Baylor Univer-
sity amid .legations that he and other university 
officials mishandled sexual assault allegations 
brought by fem.e students against members of 
the school, footb.I team. 
The Miami Herald reach. out to Starr, 
though cettifi. letter and through a spokesmail 
for his current law finn, the Lanier Finn, but did 
not receive a response for this story. 
Palm Beach police detective Joseph Recarey, 
one of the most highly decorat. officers on 
the P.m Beach Police Department, call. the 
Epstein case the most troubling of his 23-year 
career. 
"Some of the victims were - and still are - 
afraid of Epstein:. he said as part of a series of 
interviews with the Her.d earlier this year. 
Privately, Michael Reiter and Recarey said 
they held onto hope that Epstein would be 
brought to trial someday, but they said that that 
notion had fad.. 
"I always hop. that the plea would be 
drown out and that these teenage girls, who 
were labeled as prostitutes by prosecutors, 
would get to fmally shed that label and see him 
go to prison where he belongs:. Recarey said. 
Recarey died in May after a brief illness. He 
ftrattda erettrhi::O in=idts :reeegdt0 5t2  ie°rIiin:fdteorka:eBal:ir C°untY st'kad"°nt:141'11:t 
was 50 wars oid. 
Epstein's sentencing hearing 
Jeffrey Edward Epstein appeared at his 
sentencing on June 30, 2008 at the Palm Beach 
County Coutthouse dress. comfortably in a 
blue blazer, blue shirt, jeans and gray sneakers. 
His attorney, Jack Goldberger, was at his side. 
Jeffrey Epstein, ac-
cused of sexually 
abusing dozens of un-
derage women, grins 
for his mugshot on 
Florida's sex offender 
registry. He once 
rsi)taeral,`,1-,I;:grgmer 
At the end of the 68-minute hearing, the 
55-year-old silver-haired financier - accus. 
of sexually abusing dozens of underage girls 
- was fingerprinted and handcuffed, just like 
any other crimin. sentenced in Florida. 
But inmate No. W35755 would not be 
treated like other convicted sex offenders in the 
state of Florida, which has some of the strictest 
s "T:tflfeyietesr baerrentrifrvItZO movement 
raised awareness about the kid-glove handling 
of powerful men accus. of sexu. abuse, 
Epstein, lenient sentence and his extraordi-
nary treatment while in custody are still the 
source of consternation for the victims he was 
accus. of molesting when they were minors. 
Beginning as far back as 2001, Epstein lured 
1 :14 s IngdEei rgaet gni:idet crn ha Iss 
masturbation, szczxl intercourse, court 
an'tigifilsr- mostly fn. disadvantaged 
families - were recruit. from middle schools 
and high schools around P.m Beach County. 
Epstein would pay the girls for massages and 
offer them further money to bring him new 
girls every time he was at his home in P.m 
Beach, according to police reports. 
The girls, now in their late 20s and early 
30s, allege in a series of f.eral civil lawsuits 
fil. during the last decade that Epstein sexu-
.ly abused hundreds of girls, not only in P.m 
Beach, but at his homes in Manhattan, New 
Mexico and on Litde St. James island in the 
U.S. Virgin Islands 
Special treatment in prison 
In 2007, the .1 had prepared a 53-page 
federal indictment charging Epstein with sex 
crimes that could have put h. in f.er. 
See PERVERSION, next page 
