Gloria Allred Says More Women Are Contacting Her About Trump
Misconduct
Gloria Allred in New York City in June 2016 (Getty Images)
Donald Trump's disgusting behavior towards women has ranged from fat-shaming to allegations of sexual
harassment, and, as we heard in the infamous "hot mic" audio from a 2005 Access Hollywood segment,
even sexual assault: "You know I’m automatically attracted to beautiful—I just start kissing them. It’s like
a magnet... And when you're a star, they let you do it, you can do anything. Grab 'em by the pussy."
Unsurprisingly, allegations are flying about much more dirty laundry yet to be aired, with reporters
chasing down possibly damaging evidence and looking for other victims.
Gloria Allred, the civil rights lawyer who takes on high-profile targets, like Bill Cosby, Roman Polanski
and, yes, Trump, confirmed to us that since the Access Hollywood tape's release, she has been "contacted
by women who allege inappropriate contact by Mr. Trump."
More to the point, Allred discussed how Trump's words suggest criminal behavior. "If there is an
unwanted or unconsented to touching of a person’s intimate parts such as the genital areas or a woman’s
breasts, that could constitute a sexual assault or a sexual battery," she explained yesterday. She added that
"when Rudy Giuliani was asked" on Sunday's political programs "if Donald Trump was describing a sexual
assault on the recently released 2005 video, he responded, 'That’s what he was talking about.'" Allred said,
"I am disgusted by what Donald Trump said and admitted that he had done on that video. An apology is
not enough."
The Access Hollywood tape was discovered after the AP's report featuring former crew members on
Trump's reality show, The Apprentice, describing his demeaning behavior towards women; in one
example, he allegedly judges female contestants' breast sizes and discusses which women he'd want to
have sex with. Allred released a statement last week, citing the numerous sexual harassment lawsuits and
his lecherous behavior: "If Mr. Trump were to be elected president he would be the employer of the largest
workforce in the country, federal government employees. Mr. Trump in that role would be sending a
message through his past words and actions that sexual harassment of women in the workplace is
acceptable and this could lead to other employers believing that they can follow Mr. Trump’s lead and
openly sexually harass their female employees, thereby creating and condoning a hostile workplace for
working women."
We need a President who respects the rights of women in the workplace not someone who creates
a hostile and sexist environment for women who work and not someone like Mr. Trump who
believes pregnancy is an inconvenience for employers; and who enables sexism.
I call on Donald Trump to release all of his employees and former employees from their nondisclosure
clauses so that they can tell the public what they suffered when they had the
unfortunate experience of working for Donald Trump, and I urge him to promise not to retaliate
against them if they tell the truth.
Donald Trump once made a remark to TMZ about me. He said "Gloria would be very very
impressed" which TMZ suggested in the context of the interview with him meant that I would be
impressed with his penis.
No Donald, I wouldn’t. What would impress me would be having Hillary Rodham Clinton in the
White House, not a man who blatantly denigrates women in the workplace.
Allred, a Clinton supporter, was a delegate at the Democratic National Convention. She successfully fought
Trump and the Miss Universe pageant to allow transgender contestant Jenna Talackova to compete in the
Miss Universe Canada event. During the DNC, Allred told Variety, "I know the only way to beat Trump is
to confront him, head on and to refuse to let him get away with his bullying behavior. I think people want
someone to stand up and confront him. I think a strong approach with Trump is warranted and that
Hillary is more than capable of fighting back and winning this battle."
You could also contribute to the GoFundMe dedicated to a legal fund for anyone who leaks Apprentice
outtakes.
