From: Weingarten, Reid 
Sent: 5/22/2017 9:28:04 PM 
To: jeffrey E. [jeeyacation@gmail.com] 
Subject: Re: WaPo story-- Trump's outside counsel 
Importance: High 
Do I have the choice? And if so, your view? 
Sent from my BlackBerry 10 smartphone. 
From: Jeffrey E. 
Sent: Monday, May 22, 2017 4:43 PM 
To: Weingarten, Reid 
Subject: Re: Fw: WaPo story-- Trump's outside counsel 
do you want it? or jared? 
On Mon, May 22, 2017 at 4:39 PM, Weingarten, Reid < wrote: 
Sent from my BlackBerry 10 smartphone. 
From: Parker, Ashley 
Sent: Monday, May 22, 2017 3:19 PM 
To: Weingarten, Reid 
Subject: WaPo story-- Trump's outside counsel 
Hi Reid, 
Ashley Parker here at the Washington Post. I cover the White House and am emailing because my colleague, 
Bob Costa, and I getting ready to post a story about President Trump's decision to move ahead with retaining 
outside counsel, and we understand you're one of the finalists for the role, and have already spoken with senior 
White House officials. I just wanted to let you know that we plan to mention your name (and of course see if 
you want to comment), and I also wanted to check and see if you were open to chatting totally off the record 
just in case there is any nuance or guidance you'd like to provide. I'm al or my desk i 
Thanks, 
Ashley 
Ashley Parker 
Cell: 
Desk: 
Twitter: gAshleyRParker 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029854 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 029855 
