From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Attachments: 
jeffrey E. [jeevacation@gmail.com] 
4/28/2016 4:37:29 PM 
Michael Wolff [ 
Fwd: Reuters / lawsuit against Jeffrey Epstein 
katie johnson v trump complaint.pdf 
Importance: High 
here we go 
----------Forwarded message---------- 
From: Martin Weinberg <IMIMI> 
Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 12:20 PM 
Subject: Fwd: Reuters / lawsuit against Jeffrey Epstein 
To: Jeff Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Reporter said 1994 claim fed ct California 
Will go to press in several hrs 
Sent from my iPhone 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: 
Date: April 28, 2016 at 12:14:37 PM EDT 
To: <MEMIN 
Subject: RE: Reuters / lawsuit against Jeffrey Epstein 
Sorry, the suit is attached to this email. 
From: Ingram, David (Reuters News) 
Sent: Thursday, April 28, 2016 12:14 PM 
To: 'Martin G. Weinberg' 
Subject: Reuters / lawsuit against Jeffrey Epstein 
Hi Marty, 
The attached lawsuit was filed this week in federal court in California alleging that Jeffrey Epstein and another 
man, Donald Trump, raped her in 1994. We're planning to publish a story on the suit this afternoon, and we 
want to make sure it is fair. Is Mr. Epstein available to speak? Or do you want to offer a comment on this 
behalf? 
My number is and I'm available any time. I also just tried your cell phone. 
Thank you in advance. 
David Ingram 
Correspondent 
Reuters News 
Thomson Reuters 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031614 
Office: 
Mobile: 
david.inqram@thomsonreuters.com 
Reuters.com  
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 031615 
